---
tags:
  - the-hunt
  - networking
  - freelance
  - mindset
author: HEMAD (Class 12)
date: 2024-06-18
---

notes by HEMAD

1.how was the conference? Any professional beans to spill with the 100devs community? ◦ so many of us there! photo in ?📝follow-along-materials ◦ people from 100devs two years ago showed up! ◦ cool to see how deep our professional network really is!

2.Advice on finding more clients? I have been strictly cold calling. Any out of the box ideas? ◦ cold calling works in certain markets ◦ start locally, show up. go to any small business in your area that looks like need help online presence. face to face works, you're more trustworthy. ◦ make sure you have solid website/online presence and examples, also a testimonial or reference ◦ maybe lawn signs? like political campaigns? so many ways to grow freelancing biz once you have everything in order ◦ do you have the ability to close? if not, work on that. ◦ do things that dont scale, use revenue from that to do the things that do scale 3.Advice to someone on the hunt for 8 months? I feel like everything except job hunting is a waste of time (ex: coding, freelancing, meetups, etc) Thoughts? ◦ once past three months range,time to be analytical of yourself, what can you improve, your gaps and work on fixing them. ◦ If you cant identity, work with someone that can help point these things out ◦ most common: not talking highly enough about self ◦ talk about yourself as a real professional, build yourself up, carry that energy into the hunt ◦ still need to code challenge, contribute to projects to keep skills fresh ◦ one example of alumni: conferences worked better than linkedin for them. Switch things up if you’re finding things you are doing aren't working ◦ REMEMBER: if you do it less than five years, you’re way up. You’re still doing a shortcut! from Mayanwolfe (Claire): It can be helpful to get a second option on your job hunting approach, because if you've been at it for a while you'll be more likely to beat yourself up rather than looking at things from an analytical perspective. From chat: I'm asking this as an introvert! How can I get connected to people? ◦ read THE book How To Win Friends and Influence People ◦ just start. We all suck at the beginning. ◦ bring a friend at first, join spaces that work for you to build to other spaces ◦ anxiety responses that get in the way seek professional help! ◦ networking doesn't have to be local meetup in person, twitter works, discord. Find them that works for you! -noone cares about your social missteps more than yourself!! - Mayanwolfe

4.Tips on making a website for a family member? (freelance) probably not going to charge them. ◦ wrong path! Family pays DOUBLE! Always. Family is always gonna cost you the most energy, time, etc. if they care they’ll want to support you ◦ if they don't, why should they get it free if they're not supporting you! ◦ worst client you ever have most likely will be someone close to you. ◦ if you don't charge that’s really fine, its up to you. BUT: USE A CONTRACT: it stipulates what happens when something goes wrong. Easy to point at and review when conflict happens. ◦ if you ignore everything else, at least USE A CONTRACT ◦ tips on making the site: quick on revisions. Don’t ignore your normal process and treat them just like any other client. Stick to contract to make thing smoother

5.Someone has a potential client that want me to work on the project for them. We have a meeting set up to discuss it, what to bring up doing our meeting? ◦ great, its still the same process. ‘What's your ballpark budget’ give them a proposal at that budget. Demand the same deposit, time paid, etc. review how to freelance class. Side note: don't be afraid to barter for goods! Trade services for your work 6.Sorry, this probably gets asked so much but tips to deal with burn-out on the hunt? I cant get over the feeling that i don't want to hitlist anymore. ◦ its okay to take a break with a defined start/end date. Get loved ones on board with your break and have them check in ◦ burn happens because those in your life may not be bought in on your doing this. They don't realize the seriousness, that you're trying to better yours and their lives. Get them bought in, make sure they know how hard you're working, that way they support, encourage, which helps with burnout ◦ another symptom of burnout: thinking of long term long goals that are out of your control. If your goal is to get the job at the end of this journey you WILL burn out. Do the small things first. Become a better developer each day. ◦ when you meet and finish these small daily goals, celebrate them and with those around you! ◦ focus on the process, you will reach the goal\*\*

From chat: I also like to do reflections, what worked and didn't work. Leon: yes! Journal your journey! Celebrate the work you did do. 7.Thoughts about the overemployed movement? Should I try having 2 dev jobs at the same time? ◦ yeah why not? If you can handle it. As long as you're bringing value to the company and not doing anything unethical. 8.Are there folks that have landed a job remotely in a first world country being from Central/Latin America? Could you do a tea spill with them? ◦ yeah of course. A lot of first jobs from 100devs were there. Did some teal spills in the past Leon says tea spill on Friday will be led by Marciac95! Marcia came up to stage: ◦ was a farmer, found 100devs in four and a half months couldnt open vscode to getting hired as python back end dev! ◦ on friday 6pm est she’ll give more details on the process 9.Starting my own local meetup called Techtastrophe in a small city in Virginia. Any tips to make it big and provide value to attendees so they come back monthly? ◦ don't worry about the size, big can be death of a community, focus on the connections, build rapport with those that show ◦ ask those that show why they came. What they wanted to get out of the meetup. Provide it! ◦ as you scale, over time worry about the size

10.What should we do if the salary for software engineer is bad compared to first world countries? They want one person that does everything an IT department does. ◦ sometimes the local economy does not support the job that others may elsewhere. ◦ may go after global hiring, but know that it is ten times harder to get! ◦ if leon was in this situation, hed make it his life goal to know every single person in every global hiring firm. Its a lot of hard. Work.

11.My client is ghosting me on payment. I didn't get a deposit or contract because they're a family friend. Should I still use them as a reference? ◦ NO. They wont say anything positive about you if they did that! ◦ you want a client that is so happy that they used you, they’ll talk so highly of you. A person ghosting you wont talk highly of you! ◦ CONTRACT CONTRACT CONTRACT. YOU MUST DO THIS NEXT TIME ◦ if payment is involved, ALWAYS get a deposit. Minimum 25%, then milestones. As you get that next payment, finish that portion of the work.

12.catchup crew here! Since there isn't a live cohort, how do we show that we've been actually going through the program? ◦ submit everything like normal. Check in on twitter, etc. use https://communitytaught.org/
