---
tags:
  - the-hunt
  - technical
  - resume
  - networking
author: HEMAD (Class 12)
date: 2024-06-07
---

100Devs Huddle Notes
Skip to content Page list Copy link to this page 06/07/2024 notes by HEMAD What is the best way to remain positive when you have been on the hunt for almost 2 years and still getting no offers? Just recover from burn out, any tips 4 it If done in less than 5 years, absolutely crushing it, BUT if you are actively hinting, doing everything 100devs ask..gotta be analytical have people look at your behavior answers, technical, etc..there could be a ‘smell’ somewhere.- -do banki brunch -mock interviews -do all of the above anyone months into the hunt process ​ I am really scared that I'll never become a software developer in this current market. Any tips on how to stay positive? Recently just recovered from burn out. -Get off reddit, twitter. Life will improve. - Misery loves company, as soon as people say “in this market” but we just heard of FIFTEEN ppl getting jobs. -Don't listen to the folks not being successful, who hang with same people. And when probed, find out they’re not doing anything. -There’s less “i sneezed and got a job opportunity”. Its hard now, HAVE to do good everything: narrative, 100hrs project, github, networking, etc to put yourself ahead. -the things that we put in our brain are going to have the most lasting effects on us ​ what kind of story can one craft if they have never had a job and only did a hobby project for 8-yrs but no work experience. -You my friend were freelancing -possibly it was an unsuccessful business and you're transitioning. -tie your narrative and your story into your 100hours project ​ around what time of the day is the prime time to reach out to recruiters? Its not really worthwhile to worry about this, as long as its business hours you should be good (Mon-Thu) don't send on a Friday. ​ If a senior dev makes a mistake, is it better for the safety of my job to leave it alone and mind my business or is there a way to respectfully bring it up? -be careful, take notes from how to win friends and influence people, admonish privately not publicly. Reach out directly to them first. Gotta know youre team, some may be sensitive. ​ How do we ask members of the community for coffee chats? 😊 Just ask, but network outside of community more, for hunt specifically. Look in local community. Starting off look here. Virtual coffee too, but eventually shift gears to focus on local tech economy. ​ When I send Hit List messages to Engineering Managers asking for a coffee chat, many respond by telling me just to click apply. How best to respond? -you can tell them that you did but would still love to chat
All docs
Pages
Huddle Notes by Author and Date
Tuesday 3.3.2026
Friday 28.2.2026
Fri 2/27/26
Tues 2/24/26
Fri 2/20/26
Tuesday 17.2.2026 - DIRTY 30
Tues 2/17/26
Fri 2/13/26
Tues 2/10/26
Fri 2/6/26
Tues 2/3/26
Friday 30.1.2026
Fri 1/30/26
Tuesday 28.1.2026
Tues 1/27/26
Fri 1/23/26
Tues 1/20/26
Fri 1/16/26
Tues 1/6/26
Tues 12/16/26
Fri 12/9/25 Memory Dump
Friday 5.12.2025
Fri 12/5/25
Fri 11/21/26
Fri 11/14/26
Fri 11/7/26
10/21/2025
10/20/2025
10/17/2025
10/16/2025
10/16/25
9/19/2025
9/12/2025
7/18/2024
07/12/2024 How to Network Deep Dive with Jason E. Torres
06/29/2024
06/21/2024
06/18/2024
06/12/2024
06/07/2024
06/05/2024
05/21/2024
5/18/2024
5/14/2024
5/11/2024
notes by HEMAD
What is the best way to remain positive when you have been on the hunt for almost 2 years and still getting no offers? Just recover from burn out, any tips 4 it
If done in less than 5 years, absolutely crushing it, BUT if you are actively hinting, doing everything 100devs ask..gotta be analytical have people look at your behavior answers, technical, etc..there could be a ‘smell’ somewhere.-
-do banki brunch
-mock interviews
-do all of the above anyone months into the hunt process
I am really scared that I'll never become a software developer in this current market. Any tips on how to stay positive? Recently just recovered from burn out.
-Get off reddit, twitter. Life will improve.
- Misery loves company, as soon as people say “in this market” but we just heard of FIFTEEN ppl getting jobs.
-Don't listen to the folks not being successful, who hang with same people. And when probed, find out they’re not doing anything.
-There’s less “i sneezed and got a job opportunity”. Its hard now, HAVE to do good everything: narrative, 100hrs project, github, networking, etc to put yourself ahead.
-the things that we put in our brain are going to have the most lasting effects on us
what kind of story can one craft if they have never had a job and only did a hobby project for 8-yrs but no work experience.
-You my friend were freelancing
possibly it was an unsuccessful business and you're transitioning.
-tie your narrative and your story into your 100hours project
around what time of the day is the prime time to reach out to recruiters?
Its not really worthwhile to worry about this, as long as its business hours you should be good (Mon-Thu) don't send on a Friday.
If a senior dev makes a mistake, is it better for the safety of my job to leave it alone and mind my business or is there a way to respectfully bring it up?
-be careful, take notes from how to win friends and influence people, admonish privately not publicly. Reach out directly to them first. Gotta know youre team, some may be sensitive.
How do we ask members of the community for coffee chats? 😊
Just ask, but network outside of community more, for hunt specifically. Look in local community. Starting off look here. Virtual coffee too, but eventually shift gears to focus on local tech economy.
When I send Hit List messages to Engineering Managers asking for a coffee chat, many respond by telling me just to click apply. How best to respond?
-you can tell them that you did but would still love to chat
-messages may come off too”i need a job”
Is there anything wrong with confirming that you're a self taught developer at the interview when they ask? If I do say yes do you think thats a bootcamp smell?
It's definitely a bootcamp smell, up to you what to say. Typically we say “community-taught”, training programs. Some co have biases, so be careful
I've been referred to a company, and I want to apply, but I'm currently on lesson 33, so I haven't gotten to node.js or the 100hr project yet. What should I do?
-Let them know you are not open to opportunities now but looking in six months or so
-this is very common esp sharing stuff/setting up online presence
-offer to circle back when more ready
Currently junior level roles are really competitive and keep landing mid-senior level interviews. Ideally junior is better, how do I know which one is best 4 me
Why would junior be better if you can land higher and you can handle it? You can always go down, harder to go up.
I will be attending renderATL next week. This will be my first conference and I am not sure what to expect/do. Do you have any advice? Will you be attending?
Leon will be speaking, attend it at 9am! Render sends out a guide, def read those.
-Going to make friends, listen to great talks. Don’t be afraid to talk to new people, have lunch with them(don't eat by yourself).
-Reach out online if you see people going. Go to afterparties!
-Might be a small 100devs meet-up.
-look into volunteering at cons
-take time to recharge!
On Tuesday's huddle you mentioned possibly having news on Cohort 3, is there any information you can provide?
-Fifteen jobs last month! Don't make an excuse, don't delay start today! In the amount of time you waited, you'd be one of the fifteen!
How do you overcome the fear of moving to another job and dealing with the new work environment, and meeting expectations?
-Make sure expectations are
very clear
. Have a meeting with mgr right away. Talk about 3, 6, 9 month plan written down, shared with mgr. Then GO GET it done
-as for environment, go slow..read How to Win Friends and Influence People
-never eat alone, join in after work culture
-take good notes, keep a dev journal. Note down wins! Keep a record.
-dont wait until end-of-year to go over accomplishments, go over often
Many companies apply unit testing for their projects. When they look at my projects without it, is that already a red flag? My 100 hours project doesn't have it
-No. be surprised how many co don't use unit testing.
-codewars, etc you've done basic testing.
Upcoming Amazon interview on Monday. I have been working on prep questions and not able to code answers correctly. I feel completely unprepared recommendations?
-Who cares cant lose a job you don't have, go into it rocking it!
-relax over the weekend.
-if it goes horribly wrong, reapply in six months.
-specifically, KNOW amazon’s processes..they are documented and easy to find.
If you’re coming to 100devs from a professional background (ie accountant, lawyer), how do you recommend including (or not including) that kind of experience?
-Do include it, bridge engineer to your past via 100 hours project.
– Laura came up to the stage –
-Currently has job opportunity came up. Has a call with CTO on monday. Looking for help on how to phrase work done in current job to look good to CTO. Its php/wordpress. Not very challenging, very simple front-end. She's been filling in a design role, but not what she wants to do. Says her sister got her the recommendation.
Leon
: don't overthink it. Its a vibe check. Think of good talking points of your job, try to “come across as normal”. Dont appear to be “sweating” the interview, be confident.
-this type of interview seems to be just a vibe check, they trust her sister to talk to Laura, so this is probably just that. Have a simple project to talk about your strengths.
-also talk to your sister again to get info on what to talk about, what to be prepared for. Take advantage of that privilege.
Do you have any recommendations for keeping structure in a gig based highly on call work environment?
-gig based: assuming, on demand work? That work is
rough
. Maybe depends on clients, on call schedule would be helpful. Find someone else that does similar work to pass work to them when get work outside of your schedule.
-keep 12 hour windows and referrals.
Mayanwolfe (Claire)  added:
Not having set work hours and 24/7 on call is rough... been there in the past, never doing it again. It literally broke me, mentally
I am having a hard time coming with a 100 hours project idea even for struggles. Any tips?
-Pick something you hate or love. Or find a problem others have that you can fix. Ideally a problem you have to solve to add to your story.
-need to find that something to help bridge story and project.
I am on a government support for unemployment however they just want me to get any job to survive. Should I just get any job whilst still looking for a Dev role?
Yes. always have money coming in! Survive and live to study another day!
I am a huge kpop fan would doing a 100devs project based on that be too childish?
-No, not childish but would it be professional? If worried, maybe it is not professional. BUT seen people build what they love to build, so build it…so if you have a interview with another fan..BAM you’re in.
-example: weed delivery program, maybe doesn't work for interview, switched it to a coffee app
is 2 full stack projects is enough? to apply?
One is enough! Ideally more, but really just one good project is enough. Talk about what you built and learned.
How do you stand out when you're against CS grads that have internship experience? They say internship has more significance over anything else than projects.
You have the same thing: freelancing experience. Also, most CS grads
don't
have that experience. Don't listen to online chatter, don't compare to min/max people that are rare. EVEN IF you are, you’re PAID freelance is comparable.
Does having a CS degree really make you stand out? My friend with one keeps saying I need some certs to derisk myself. Hence why I keep failing the technicals.
No, it does open some jobs to specific CS-req jobs. Has nothing to do with you failing technicals. Question that friend, careful that type of advice.
What are the essential parts when talking about your past experience and skill set? All I can talk about is my 100 hours projects and freelancing. That enough?
Thats a big part of it but what makes you unique? Why would they hire you over the ~100 candidates? Have something that sets you apart
What do you show when you have past work but you can only show your work and not the entire project? (WP Project)
-You talk about it, show as screenshot, don't need to link the entire project.
When talking pay, a recruiter said they're new to the role and are not sure what devs at this level make and they haven't told them the budget. What do I say?
Please talk to them and get back to me, thats it
Do we have any tea spills scheduled soon? Can we have some of the recent ppl who got jobs come back and share their good vibes & tips with us?
Hopefully soon
if I say I was freelancing for many years, wouldn't it be expected of me to apply for a senior position while I want an entry level job..how do I ask for entry?
Im interested in entry-level roles
My non-coding job that asked me to make a tool using Google Sheets for error reports, wrote some JS to automate parts of it. Can I leverage this for resume?
Yes, that should be on your resume, you did that
how to get loads of green boxes on git all my projects are set on private cause they are work related
You can include private on your heatmap. Turn on that setting
I'm in a data QC position, how do I convince my supervisor to let me have a set number of hours spent coding a way to automate my tasks?
Let them know you have those abilities. Ask to automate it, show your worth. Worthwhile to ask.
been doing 100devs for 1yr and 4 months. i am only on class 53 and i feel useless
Build something, that's all. You’re USEFUL. You’re putting in the work, asking questions, you’re doing more than the ones that dont get past class 1. You have skills and experience that others would love to have.
Why are there specific companies that only want candidate with a CS degree? Surely CS grads mainly study the theory and a build a few projects on their course.
Don't know how to hire, just a filter.
My full-time job pays peanuts, but it’s something. It seems like waste of time, and not relevant to my goals. Suggestions for networking into a better role?
Yes network into a better role
Any tips for someone who is a returning citizen, as far as reaching out for chats, explaining it on a resume, ect?
Dont. you just don't have to. It probably wont come up. Don't snitch on yourself. Reach out to folks here.
What are the people getting placements projects like? i feel like my own everything is rubbish and i might be too shit to do this
Gotta focus on the things you accomplished in the short amount of time you’ve  been doing this!
Why we choose Codewars over Leetcode?
Leet kinda silly until you get better. Brute Forcing is better
Any tips for having a consistent study schedule?
Start super small. One victory a day, work up to more.
hobby project = blog but did have sponsorship a few times.
Thats a biz, not a hobby if got paid
two parter - so that job posting i have an interview with on monday. but it seems like it is 3-4 jobs in one. what are you thoughts on this and I am countering!
Doesn't matter, just get the offer!
Do you have to submit all HW to complete the cohort 2?
Yes, need it to be eligible for huntober..IF you want it
I feel like i remember either seeing/hearing a remark from Leon a while back about looking at alternatives to X for class sign ins- is this still a possibility?
Not yet. When cohort 3, may be alt then.
Dont pay money to learn
is it okay to build stuff out side of what 100devs teaches like how 100devs teaches js can you make something in another language like php for the 100hrs project
Don't feel constrained to stick only with 100devs. Just complete a project then go to the next one.
Hi Leon almost all the jobs in my area require a CS degree If I'm unable to network this job do I hit apply anyway and what if recruiter asks me if I have one?
Apply anyway. If a real hurtle, enroll in community college. And say you're on the way to cs deg
got dc, wanted to know how do I ask for entry level job if I say I have many years of freelancing, when they would be expecting me to apply for senior position
Not abnormal to want to go to an entry level role.
