---
tags:
  - the-hunt
  - interview
  - networking
author: HEMAD (Class 12)
date: 2024-06-21
---

100Devs Huddle Notes
Skip to content Page list Copy link to this page 06/21/2024 from HEMAD here are some notes from tonight, june 21 2024. tune into the tea spill, i wont take notes for tha! how to did practice and prep for your technical interview. every interview my peers that got were coding challenges and a white board PREP! Calms the nerves, this should be good 10-15min before interview, I see many in the top 10/20 of the codewars clan, still without a job? Should we worry? Is it almost hopeless? no, codewars doesn't move the needle. Technically prep is just one door that you open. Dont put all your eggs in that basket, make sure you’re networking weekly! Dont just do the easy things!, a lot of folx are in that community but not in the hunt, keep that in mind, I have been taken on board for a Hackathon sponsored by Google. The organizer said people will be head hunted after 4 days. How can I stand out as a participant best thing you could do: make sure you’re reaching out, you’re connecting with them afterward. Be persistent and follow up, take the initiative and things will eventually work in your favor, I have weekly mock interviews with my senior dev friend. When its the real interviews I tend to feel nervous and anxious after being rejected many times.Tips? first: totally normal. Give yourself grace! It’s part of the process, just do more. With any company, any phone screen, get used to going into that environment, and once you’ve done some you’ll be used to it., know what you’re going into, actually ASK them what you’ll be tested on and more often than not, they'll tell you!, go into every interview with the mindset this person is your best friend and wants the best outta you. Just positive vibes for yourself to be even more confident!,
All docs
Pages
Huddle Notes by Author and Date
Tuesday 3.3.2026
Friday 28.2.2026
Fri 2/27/26
Tues 2/24/26
Fri 2/20/26
Tuesday 17.2.2026 - DIRTY 30
Tues 2/17/26
Fri 2/13/26
Tues 2/10/26
Fri 2/6/26
Tues 2/3/26
Friday 30.1.2026
Fri 1/30/26
Tuesday 28.1.2026
Tues 1/27/26
Fri 1/23/26
Tues 1/20/26
Fri 1/16/26
Tues 1/6/26
Tues 12/16/26
Fri 12/9/25 Memory Dump
Friday 5.12.2025
Fri 12/5/25
Fri 11/21/26
Fri 11/14/26
Fri 11/7/26
10/21/2025
10/20/2025
10/17/2025
10/16/2025
10/16/25
9/19/2025
9/12/2025
7/18/2024
07/12/2024 How to Network Deep Dive with Jason E. Torres
06/29/2024
06/21/2024
06/18/2024
06/12/2024
06/07/2024
06/05/2024
05/21/2024
5/18/2024
5/14/2024
5/11/2024
from HEMAD
here are some notes from tonight, june 21 2024. tune into the tea spill, i wont take notes for tha!
how to did practice and prep for your technical interview. every interview my peers that got were coding challenges and a white board
PREP! Calms the nerves, this should be good 10-15min before interview,
I see many in the top 10/20 of the codewars clan, still without a job? Should we worry? Is it almost hopeless?
no, codewars doesn't move the needle. Technically prep is just one door that you open. Dont put all your eggs in that basket,
make sure you’re networking weekly! Dont just do the easy things!,
a lot of folx are in that community but not in the hunt, keep that in mind,
I have been taken on board for a Hackathon sponsored by Google. The organizer said people will be head hunted after 4 days. How can I stand out as a participant
best thing you could do: make sure you’re reaching out, you’re connecting with them afterward. Be persistent and follow up, take the initiative and things will eventually work in your favor,
I have weekly mock interviews with my senior dev friend. When its the real interviews I tend to feel nervous and anxious after being rejected many times.Tips?
first: totally normal. Give yourself grace! It’s part of the process,
just do more. With any company, any phone screen, get used to going into that environment, and once you’ve done some you’ll be used to it.,
know what you’re going into, actually ASK them what you’ll be tested on and more often than not, they'll tell you!,
go into every interview with the mindset this person is your best friend and wants the best outta you. Just positive vibes for yourself to be even more confident!,
