---
tags:
  - the-hunt
  - resume
  - freelance
  - interview
author: lets (class 63)(lurk)
date: 2025-10-16
---

100Devs Huddle Notes
Skip to content Page list Copy link to this page 10/16/25 from lets(class 63)(lurk) Come Learn How To Build The Perfect Resume! One that opens doors, gets interviews, and helps you land your next job!   • ​ You'll learn the mistakes that get your resume sent to the trashcan   • ​ Understand what recruiters actually care about   • ​ Walk away with a template that you can put into action ASAP We need a couple sets of resumes – there are resumes that work really well for individuals who know how to finesse and a resume for those who lack that ability. They are very different resumes. For somebody who can articulate the things unsaid, to fill in the blanks of something that isn't explicitly stated – they can go forward with a different resume. Some people need their resume to be brutally honest. You CANNOT use the text that comes out of resume generators because it smells like AI but it gives you STRUCTURE and DIRECTION. A hiring manager is the person calling all the shots when it comes time to get a job. They have head count, probably write the job description and the final say in who gets hired. This is different from every single company but generally this is how it shakes down. Then you have genreally two other big folks outside of the hiring manager – recruiter and sourcer. Recruiter coordinates all the inbound talent and filters for the hiring manager. Hiring manager should only ever look at a handful of candidates and only during an on-site or interviews. Sometimes the recruiters needs help for the inbound interest – so a sourcer. Sourcer are in charge of getting viable candidates in front of the recruiter, they're the one who send the emails and linkedin messages.
All docs
Pages
Huddle Notes by Author and Date
Tuesday 3.3.2026
Friday 28.2.2026
Fri 2/27/26
Tues 2/24/26
Fri 2/20/26
Tuesday 17.2.2026 - DIRTY 30
Tues 2/17/26
Fri 2/13/26
Tues 2/10/26
Fri 2/6/26
Tues 2/3/26
Friday 30.1.2026
Fri 1/30/26
Tuesday 28.1.2026
Tues 1/27/26
Fri 1/23/26
Tues 1/20/26
Fri 1/16/26
Tues 1/6/26
Tues 12/16/26
Fri 12/9/25 Memory Dump
Friday 5.12.2025
Fri 12/5/25
Fri 11/21/26
Fri 11/14/26
Fri 11/7/26
10/21/2025
10/20/2025
10/17/2025
10/16/2025
10/16/25
9/19/2025
9/12/2025
7/18/2024
07/12/2024 How to Network Deep Dive with Jason E. Torres
06/29/2024
06/21/2024
06/18/2024
06/12/2024
06/07/2024
06/05/2024
05/21/2024
5/18/2024
5/14/2024
5/11/2024
from lets(class 63)(lurk)
Come Learn How To Build The Perfect Resume! One that opens doors, gets interviews, and helps you land your next job!
You'll learn the mistakes that get your resume sent to the trashcan
Understand what recruiters actually care about
Walk away with a template that you can put into action ASAP
We need a couple sets of resumes – there are resumes that work really well for individuals who know how to finesse and a resume for those who lack that ability. They are very different resumes. For somebody who can articulate the things unsaid, to fill in the blanks of something that isn't explicitly stated – they can go forward with a different resume. Some people need their resume to be brutally honest.
You CANNOT use the text that comes out of resume generators because it smells like AI but it gives you STRUCTURE and DIRECTION.
A hiring manager is the person calling all the shots when it comes time to get a job. They have head count, probably write the job description and the final say in who gets hired. This is different from every single company but generally this is how it shakes down. Then you have genreally two other big folks outside of the hiring manager – recruiter and sourcer.
Recruiter coordinates all the inbound talent and filters for the hiring manager. Hiring manager should only ever look at a handful of candidates and only during an on-site or interviews. Sometimes the recruiters needs help for the inbound interest – so a sourcer.
Sourcer are in charge of getting viable candidates in front of the recruiter, they're the one who send the emails and linkedin messages.
Sometimes this process gets BIGGER. You're at a larger company and maybe you have multiple recruiter/sourcers and thus you have a coodinator that helps triage everything.
If you're going to network your way into the job, then hiring manager will have the most sway but recruiter/sourcer may be most visible. And know that they may be managing lots and lots of people
What does the process look like? 250 resumes submitted. All of them are run through an ATS (applicant tracking system). ATS is not AI, not robot, not somebody instantly rejecting you. A CV compiler gives you a score. There's no mystical match score and lots of companies are trying to sell you on this.
At no point is an AI or robot dismissing your resume
. Knock out questions are real – there are questions if you answer wrong then you are not moving onto the next round, right away. Visa questions and degrees are two very common knockout questions. Outside of that there IS NO AI THAT WILL DISMISS YOUR RESUME. It's a legal quagmire of equitable employment laws.
Who is looking at the resume? A human! We put together the resume for a human to read. Thus you format the resume in a certain way.
First filter: In the first 6/7 seconds that a recruiter looks at your resume, you HAVE to be one of the standouts that are the top 10%. They are looking for
keywords that need to match, proof that you can do the role, things that are worth giving you more time on
. You have to PROVE that you are a safe candidate.
Second filter: Phone screen w/ recruiter
Third filter: Technical phone screen / take home challenge / focused on coding
Fourth filter: onsite interview, coding interviews,
hiring manager
and system designs
Offer: congratulations!
The recruiter only has to find qualified/safe candidates for the hiring manager. The HIRING MANAGER is the one that they can bring into the company that will last the next 2/3 years.
“Have good communication skills. Have a past that you've woven into your narrative. Be able to communicate highly technical concepts in a digestable vernacular. Show excitement for the position. Follow up. Be able to show a history of consistency (anywhere).”
GETTING PAST THE FIRST FILTER:
What a recruiter sees: Name/Location/Current Role/Highest Education. This may present problems for somebody without a CS degree. Networking your way into the job lets you skip this first pass where the recruiter sees that you have no degree and/or your current job not being in software. This is the FIRST PASS. Thus it's very important to include college if you've gone to college and the first role on your resume SHOULD be software engineer. Talent is equally distributed but opportunity is not, thus there are things you have to do to get in the running.
In that first 6/7 seconds whether you're TECHNICAL, have IMPACT and LEADERSHIP capabilities. They need to be able to see that in 7 seconds and then the 20 seconds you get once you've piqued their interest.
Don't ever have words like 'learning', 'aspiring'
The language in terms of IMPACT and LEADERSHIP matter
Say they've started to look at your resume, they will start to fill in gaps. Sometimes for good, sometimes for bad. This is the gamble you can make in your resume. Two schools of thought: one be hyperexplicit or let them dream a little bit. Some ppl when they take a break to take care of family – they write 'family responsibilities'. Some employers see this, don't hold them against them, actually value the honesty, explained everything in detail and you move on. Some employers have a high workload and don't care, and don't move you on. HOWEVER this is a gamble since recruiters can fill this in negatively (lying, etc) or positively. Either be SUPER explicit or let the brain dance a bit.
Language matters (silent snitching): Little things matter when a human is reading it. “Helped and supported” vs “Led and Launched”. Think of how you feel when somebody says you 'led' the team or 'supported the new initative' vs 'launched the new initiative'. Sometimes people will use the wrong word even though they did the bulk of the work. Did you do most of the work – then you led the team! If you got it across the finish line then you launched the initiative!
Don't lie, just use the best possible words. You need to practice the proof, crafting the story and creating the narrative, creating the proof points in order to keep it consistent with your resume.
“A senior swe told me to always say I owned it and even exaggerate my work slightly , even if I got tons of help”
THE FORMAT TO USE IN YOUR RESUME: FOLLOW THE XYZ FORMAT!
Accomplished by X as measured by Y by doing Z. The recruiter has to justify you are one of the 5/250 that moves onto the onsite screening. Most people forget one of these pieces.
X: What did you do? What was the impact that you had?
Y: How did you measure that impact?
Z: How did you make that come true? How did you actually do it? This is the thing that holds people the most, they don't explain the how. The HOW is the most important thing because that's what the recruiter is bragging about.
EXAMPLE:
OK: “Won second place in hackathon.”
Better: “Won second place out of 50 teams in hackathon.”
Best: “Won second place out of 50 teams in hackathon at NJ tech by working with two colleagues to develop an app that synchronizes mobile calenders.”
One sentence for each bullet point, ditch the fluff.
If you're already working as an engineer, you should keep a dev log and keep it up to date each week, writing down the estimate impacts of your work.
/////////////////Resume template review//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
Two column resume works really well for career changers. It has a good summary (CONTROVERSIAL), typically only have a summary if you are senior/above OR you're a career changer. Originally included it because only senior ppl had summaries and it explained why we're switching careers. Maaaaybe a psychological play – maybe they weigh you as more technical off the riff.
Career changers are not valued highly in the marketplace if they are not ready to work right away → REALLY LEADING INTO THE PROOF. It's important to be a safe and competent candidate!
If you're applying to FAANG level companies, tier 1 startups, maybe two column might not be the best for you. There's some tradeoffs to have here.
Project section: What do projects make you think of? Who has projects? Entry level talent. If you have a project section, it might be a bit too much in the first six seconds because it has a smell. (Looking critically at the things at what might go in or be omitted from a resume).
The first bullet point has to be HIGH impact. Show TECHNICAL COMPETENCY, show LEADERSHIP.
“Strategy” = screaming HOW. HOW did you do it? HOW was it impactful?
/////////////////Second Resume//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
Listed experience in their time at 100Devs. (Their training program). Can plug in how much money you made from your client. Can put training program next to 100Devs, that's up to you.
Listed 100 hours project and (>100 hours).
Having more than one client can be very helpful because they can become extra bullet points.
Anything else you work on can be placed on your resume.
Adding volunteering/certifications is good but be sure not to add bootcampy/new dev stuff.
' "Secured a five-figure client contract for the 100Devs agency by working with a diverse engineering and business team to produce a website development proposal with detailed timeline, team composition, and project cost data information."
That was from participating in the colossal media campaign. What did it result in? A 100Devs contract.'
