---
tags:
  - the-hunt
  - networking
  - resume
  - technical
author: Ashton (class 10)
date: 2024-05-21
---

100Devs Huddle Notes
Skip to content Page list Copy link to this page 05/21/2024 Huddle Notes May 21, 2024 by HEMAD (Class 24) ​   1. ​ I just began the #100Devs course, not sure if this is addressed later in the course, but how do I know what is worthy of being added to Anki?   • ​ Do as much as you can, you’re gonna write trash cards   • ​ Needs to be your deck, part of the learning is making your deck   • ​ You'll gradually weed out ones that don’t work   1. ​ What are some important questions to ask when you receive a job offer?
All docs
Pages
Huddle Notes by Author and Date
Tuesday 3.3.2026
Friday 28.2.2026
Fri 2/27/26
Tues 2/24/26
Fri 2/20/26
Tuesday 17.2.2026 - DIRTY 30
Tues 2/17/26
Fri 2/13/26
Tues 2/10/26
Fri 2/6/26
Tues 2/3/26
Friday 30.1.2026
Fri 1/30/26
Tuesday 28.1.2026
Tues 1/27/26
Fri 1/23/26
Tues 1/20/26
Fri 1/16/26
Tues 1/6/26
Tues 12/16/26
Fri 12/9/25 Memory Dump
Friday 5.12.2025
Fri 12/5/25
Fri 11/21/26
Fri 11/14/26
Fri 11/7/26
10/21/2025
10/20/2025
10/17/2025
10/16/2025
10/16/25
9/19/2025
9/12/2025
7/18/2024
07/12/2024 How to Network Deep Dive with Jason E. Torres
06/29/2024
06/21/2024
06/18/2024
06/12/2024
06/07/2024
06/05/2024
05/21/2024
5/18/2024
5/14/2024
5/11/2024
Huddle Notes May 21, 2024 by HEMAD (Class 24)
1.
I just began the #100Devs course, not sure if this is addressed later in the course, but how do I know what is worthy of being added to Anki?
Do as much as you can, you’re gonna write trash cards
Needs to be your deck, part of the learning is making your deck
You'll gradually weed out ones that don’t work
What are some important questions to ask when you receive a job offer?
Base salary
What does bonus structure
Yearly review
What's the team like
Ask A LOT of questions, anything is fair game
Whatever impacts you the most
*a lot are in the bank to go over
Alexandria asks: good news first client, her mother. She wants a landing page and email list. She wants to know when negotiating with family
Family and friends pay double. Its usually a lot more work and treat it like ANY other client/job.
Ballpark budget
Proposal
EVERYTHING written down and agreed upon up front, if they don't agree don't take the job
Always make sure things are clear.
Little_data asks: what is Leon’s perspective? What were some more difficult engineering problems?
People. Its always people. [he pivoted to make sure this huddle is more about ‘the hunt’ questions, offered answering other questions like this via modmail]
Legend (ming) 100 hour project is working but the backend is really messy. What should he be focusing on right now?
making it less messy, also doing things to increase chances for multiple, many jobs/opportunities. Polish is for recruiters that don't know any better. You could have garbage code, but as long as you could talk about why it's garbage, that would be okay.
A recruiter reached out for a job but have been changing the date of the interview many times. Seems like they dont have organization. Should I interview there?
Yes always interview
how easy is it to find a fully remote role (UK/EU based) as a jr dev?Should I give up on it?It's the only way I can manage to work right now due to health stuff
its difficult, its possible but hard. Other 100devs folks have done it, but its A LOT of work
Is it important to not quit your current job until you find a new one as a software dev. Or should you take a risk and go all in ?
never quit if you can avoid it until you secure a swe job. When you are secure and stable and have money coming in and not worried about food on the table, guess what studyings a bit easier, going into interviews is…never quit your job until your new one
I have worked in the restaurant business for the past 20 years. I was just wondering what a typical day is like for a software engineer? Do you ever work late?
depends on who you are. Some colleagues RUN at 5 o’clock. Some never work late/weekend while others don’t seem to mind. Millions of swe’s, culture is different at different jobs. Find what you want. Is it better or worse hours? Typically way better, you tend to have more control over hours and time worked.
Is it productive to have a project before looking for coffee chat? I find that without a thing or project busy people refuse because it is poor use of time.
Dont delay start today. Often engineers like being supportive to those up and coming.
Can you remind us how we should respond to recruiters who reach out to us first but we don't have exp with the language they're hiring for ?
Depends on where you're at. Cant lose a job you don't have. If they're reaching out,
who am  i to not interview
. Interview practice is interview practice, at least get that behavioral practice in. This is different if you already have a job, happily employed. At that point, may have a canned response involving absurd requests.
Should i have a camera for virtual coffee chat?
prefer camera on, even with first one. Leans toward respectful but wouldn’t think bad if not.
Is it advisable to ask in a coffee chat for them to suggest 3-5 or more people for me to network with?
just ask who else can I connect with. Every once and awhile had a coffee chat with a suit with manufactured questions. Don't mind that but not gonna be friends. Point is to make friends. If they come in treating it like an interview, that's when it should end. Avoid that ‘3-5 friends…’ sounds too transactional.
when you say get a client are we building websites for these clients? sorry I just started 100devs today 😅
YES. while completing 100devs, be tasked with getting a paid client. Helps when  applying for opportunities.
Hey Leon, Are You doing any Resume review anytime soon ?
Not really, might do it again. ask on discord
I was talking to someone about 100devs & she was able to rec some1 to get in touch with &have a cofffee chat with and she is going to help me get an internship
Great that's why we network! Letsgo!
Should we give up on remote positions to be more competitive? Like focusing on hybrid and on-site positions?
Depending on the privilege of time dictates what job to go after. Prob go after the local job market first, then remote. Being local is competitive advantage
Started to prep the technical questions in the bank. The answers are easy to find but fully understanding the concepts is a tough one. Can you provide any tips?
Do the work. Put in time to learn the answers. Don't memorize as facts, they are guiding points for knowledge to do well in an interview. REal work is understanding the answers. Get WAY more at answering them on your own. Point is to understand them, ask on discord. Attend banki brunch.
should we cold call small companies for jobs?
Way more impactful things to do with your time. You can if you want.
Have you dealt with hard of hearing students/co-workers/clients? Any tips for people with this disability working at a SWE company? And maybe also for the hunt?
when you need accommodation, ask late in interview. Its about working with the company to get what you need to do the job. Specifically hard of hearing, try reddit communities or here on discord
I thought you recommended not working with friends as clients (due to scope creep).. were you saying you'd recommend it as a 1st client to allow leniency?
Yeah. Don't think those are contradictory. Friends and family, charge double and have a VERY clear scope. Charging double could  be time (not just money), too. Take longer to do the project, if needed.
should we let them know about our ADHD if it helps us get extra time etc?
Ask for it at the latest point in interview process. Asking before even a phone screen is bad idea.
How do you suggest pitching ongoing maintenance to a freelance client for a website I've been working on for way too long (they keep requesting edits)?
Stop doing work for free! Create a boundary.
Is using age an asset in networking like college graduate?
i think so, senior folks like helping younger. Although, age doesn't matter too much in networking
What do you think of all the bootcamps that are shutting down?
Good? Haha you can learn this stuff for free. A lot of these boot camps were vc funded large corporations
A company that interviews for react developer then when sign up they expect you to use next. Js, twalind. Css, Redux and Typescript in 3 days, is it worth it?
Yeah, if you have that skillset, right? Ramp of 3 days is wild, maybe misreading, but thats a pretty common skillset
I did most of an electrical engineering degree, stopping when Covid started. How do I frame that as a positive thing? Low level, but conveys my tech background
yeah, there you go, put it on resume
Ats score matter?
[note taker here…he deleted the question just as I tried to copy it down]
Yeah, should be 100.
We spend a lot of time getting rid of the bootcamp smell but if an employer googles 100devs the first thing they see on the website is "bootcamp". Why?
The first thing doesn't matter. you networked your way in, talking to real human. The second [Google] result mentions our hiring, thats a good thing.
I'm going to start a bank based tech internship but I would also like to start 100dev course. Is this advisable since I'll be learning different things?
No. please focus on internship first, deep not wide once stable, maybe ome 100devs. Don't do both and def not off the jump
