---
tags:
  - the-hunt
  - resume
  - salary
  - freelance
author: Ashton (class 10)
date: 2024-05-14
---

notes by sheep (Kayla)

  

is cohort 3 going to take place in May or are there plans to postpone it for some other date? don't delay, start today. don't put off becoming a software engineer if you want to be a software engineer. when a start date is made for cohort 3, it will be abundantly clear it's happening. there's no way you'd miss it.

i don't have a portfolio since i'm in class 8. how can i join the talent base? don't worry about the talent base right now, it doesn't have any practical value for you since you haven't finished the cohort. having people fill it out was to try and figure out what people need right now it's more for people who are finished/close to finished.

When’s the deadline for 100devs talent base? there's no deadline because it's not a fully fledged thing yet even though some people have gotten interviews from it.

My 1st interview & 2 qs that caught me off guard 3 words ur cowrkrs would use to describe u & 3 words ur friends &family wuld use to describe u how do I answer? those are silly interview questions but make sure to be doing your banki questions because keywords you could use come from Banki. don't snitch on yourself/say something negative about yourself when answering questions like this, interviews are a game and there are ways to play it well, not a time for blunt honesty. there's no humbleness in the HUNT! you want the company to know you're awesome.

As a guy, how can I make sure when I invite someone to a coffee chat, it's an extra safe space? I want to only make friends and absolutely respect boundaries. if this is a worry you have, you're probably going to do okay. keep all professional commuication; keep on Linked In/Twitter, don't ask for personal phone numbers to call or text. if you don't know how to be professional, don't do coffee chats with strangers. do a practice coffee chat with someone you know(coworker/friend) and get feedback. don't comment on physical attributes. you don't need to talk about someone's clothes, hairstyle, or body in any way. if you do mess up, apologize. it's pretty easy to tell when you've messed up and you should recognize it, apologize, and make sure to not do it again moving forward.

I work in a small startup and my boss is pressuring me about task deliveries even though I'm on time with them I even do design besides coding because no UI dev. startups have a habit of overworking people for little compensation a lot of start-up bosses are folx that have never been bosses. they might not know how to manage or treat employees. keep track of your own tasks and show them the body of work, show them you're doing more work and exceeding expectations share your wins with your team/your boss, they might not notice otherwise. know when to set and hold your boundaries. a lot of startup founders want to find people they can trick into doing a bunch of work for little pay. PLAN YOUR DAY AND HAVE WELL DEFINED GOALS. Ask in an email what they want to be accomplished and when, so if they try to move the goalpost later, you can point that out. be aware of how "fragile" your boss is when it comes to their management style.

How to answer the question what is some critical feedback you've gotten recently? This got me tripped up during an interview there's a reason Leon has us do a freelancing project. It lets you get feedback that you can use to answer. if you can't work for whatever reason, you can use volunteer work to get feedback. when answering a question like this, explain what the issue was that you got feedback on, what action(s) you took to resolve it, and the result.

My local area hires a lot of php and laravel should learn these? yes. you've learned how to learn through the course, start learning and make a project.

I was data analyst in Africa (1.5 YOE), since moving to Canada couldn't get any job for a year. Do you think I can have more chances in SWE ? Also, any advice? Leon doesn't know the specifics of getting a job w/ Canada and a visa issues if any. build a list of global remote hiring companies see what you can improve on before switching and think of what's best for your long-term

Haven't got an interview all month after getting many last month. Feeling down and letting doubts getting into my head. Thoughts? hiring is cyclical, it'll ebb and flow. don't get caught up in the pattern, be consistent with what you're doing to get hired REMOVE THE EMOTION, IT'S ONE OF 60 INTERVIEWS don't get excited about getting an interview so often, the first one is super exciting because it's the first but getting so hyped up on every single one will make the doubt feel worse don't stop doing the things that got you interviews. some people start off trying to get interviews strong but after a while stop going at it so consistantly what time of year do companies hire the most? January, March, May, November, and October are usually pretty booming but companies hire all year I interviewed and got an offer but I need to stay working with them for 2 years, normal? Recruiter said not to worry about that it's normal practice no. there's a rise in these companies that convince you that you're less than others and that you "need to be trained before becoming full-time". And if you leave before the two years, you'll have to pay them for the "training" they provided. might be illegal or legal depending on where you live.

The company I'm interviewing for told me there is no hierarchal structure and they aren't big on role progression is that a red flag? it depends on the company and depends on the size. some places are great but some can be lord of the flies-esque sometimes it is sort of a stinky smell so make sure to check the company out. check Glassdoor for reviews, check Reddit, and any other place you can think of. if it's a good offer take it, rather get paid for 3 months and quit than not get paid for 3 months remember what they say during the interview but evaluate it later

How long is too long to spend on 100Hours project? it depends, some 100Hours projects turn into businesses but be careful not to only build on the 100hrs project, work on getting employed

salary not keeping up with the cost of living. like what I do, who I do it with but it's becoming less affordable. been getting back into the hunt. staffing agency pipelined to a company that I like. But once I said didn't want a temp job, the recruiter's tone changed immediately. Positions are only 3 months long according to the recruiter. am i wrong for wanting more? how to proceed in the hunt in the age of AI? it's the recruiter's job to make the most money for them and the company, not you staffing agencies don't always have your best interests in mind and the recruiter has an economic interest in you getting a lower salary for them to get a larger cut. in general, don't take the word of ONE person as fact, people are incentivized to make you feel a certain way Use AI as a tool to: help you tweak cover letters, resumes, and messages, and find companies the practicality of AI is up to you always do the last pass yourself, AI can generate some WILD stuff. watch the classes on speedrunning you can connect GPT to Google Sheets and do prompts in the Google Sheets and Leon's been meaning to do a video on that now that GPTs are more accessible a kind of side conversation that was had was about how great libraires are. in a lot of places, you can get cards for free and it lets you get access to books, magazines, music, movies, etc. some services like Libby and Hoopla let you get access to things remotely even if you don't live an area where you have a library near you
