---
tags:
  - the-hunt
  - freelance
  - networking
  - resume
author: Jess St Pierre
date: 2025-09-12
---

# 

2025-09-12: 100Devs Huddle Notes

Written: By

[Jess St-Pierre](https://linktr.ee/jess_stpierre)

You need to quickly start looking for jobs. Dont over-analyze!! You need to practice interviewing and stuff!-> Is my resume good?-> Am I getting callbacks? Start as soon as you can to get a feedback loop going!! Most people will be ready after completing 100hrs project if you’re doing 100Devs. Need to know what interviews look like to study for them!!

If someone criticizes my work not-constructively than I would communicate with them politely. Just explain how you want the person to constructively criticize, in private. Only if that person is a random colleague who wasn’t assigned to criticize you!

Interviewers probably wont look at your portfolio. Might look at resume and LinkedIn so dont waste too much time on the portfolio! Need to know what folks actually care about.

There are still plenty of remote opportunities! Depends where you’re located. Some are back in office and some are hybrid some are remote!

You kind of wanna have all your ducks in a row before you start taking all your time job searching, so you should have done your 100hrs project.

If you had an internship, it depends on your official title for it! You should be talking about the things you’ve done and the things you accomplished. Nothing smelly about a work experience! You always wanna let them dig if they wanna dig, there is no need to state every-single thing but never lie! Want them to formulate most grand opinion of me as possible. Dont snitch on yourself.

If diagnosed with ADHD = take Ritalin or Adderall, get that good stuff. Find a like-minded community. What works for me might not work for you! Work with a professional directly for strategies gonna be different for each person! Therapy / exercice / eating right! Or something like that.

Clients that want more but cant pay more. You respond with “hey this is a great change of scope, we would need a new contract / proposal for the work with a new payment.” (Not sure if Leon included the payment part so take with a grain of salt from me)

Very soon we have Huntober starting! The month for hiring until January. This year we will do it biiiig!

Can I use projects from class if I havent done 100hrs yet? Yes! But make it your own, dont just take the homework directly. Not for portfolio sake, so you have something to talk about = 100hr project!

At what point do you lower your quote if u dont get a reply from your client! = Never!! If anything you up it “hey I know we’ve been talking for a while but I’m starting to get booked this month. I could do it next month but for a higher price”

100hrs is to talk about during interviews, not simply to showcase on your portfolio!!

Reach out to 3 managers in 1 company, keep reaching out. Stop messaging them only when they tell you to stop. initial than 1 week than 1 month at least. And keep them in the loop. Click apply shouldn’t be the only thing you do! Reaching out is for every other role they also post afterwards not just this one.

Its been 2 years since I graduated. How do I stay motivated? Have to audit your process! What has to change/ improve? Could be anything! Take that in a systematic way! Be analytical not critical of yourself and your process. Bigger hitlist! More networking! More people in funnel so that the holes in it are obvious! Need feedback loop. Either not enough in funnel or big cracks in it!

How much wiggle room do companies have from initial offer? Depends on a lot of things! On average 10k to play with. Its such a hard question to answer! You have to figure out what the range is for each opportunity!

If it takes 2-3 yrs to finish studying web dev: network the whole time!!! Need to have so many people in your corner that would be willing to refer you!

For case study, can I redo client projects because the old are cringey?! Yes you can show the improvement you had over time!

Tips for ppl going to CYC alone! = You’re not going alone, 100Devs will be going! A lot of people are saying in the CYC channel that they are going and want to be your friend! Use that channel to meet with folks! See who’s going, follow the speakers on socials, make Twitter lists of people going! And then get a conference buddy, can say you have social anxiety and go with someone! The programming podcast also has a good ep on how to conference!

Networking and a little bit of freelancing! Kind of gotta do it all. Do freelancing, just for things to talk about during interviews. Networking is going to be the most helpful post-grad.

How add 100hr project to resume? = What value did you provide? What have you done that no one else did? What can a recruiter take and then brag to engineering manager about?

How to learn/ take notes? = As Im watching and learning I ask questions, note what I cant answer + goes into my Anki for review. No need to take notes on stuff you know already!

People can smell if you write your resume with AI, so dont do it!

By apply I mean network your way in! Talk to them build a relationship, the jobs will come!
