---
tags:
  - the-hunt
  - networking
  - resume
  - freelance
author: Michael Govaerts
date: 2024-07-18
---

notes by HEMAD

JULY 18 2024 SECRET HUDDLE NOTES Lesson 3 tech interviewer here, It's a 2.5hr JS interview. should I focus on practicing with Codewars and watching tutorial videos? Any video recs? pls help

Watch the js review class

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sRJYuaqoiI&pp=ygUXMTAwZGV2cyBqcyBzdXBlciByZXZpZXc%3D](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sRJYuaqoiI&pp=ygUXMTAwZGV2cyBqcyBzdXBlciByZXZpZXc%3D)

to learn the basics, yes practice codewars and take the shot! Learn from the interview process, improvements, changes. Beauti

How do I apply to do a tea spill?

Just send a modmail!

It's been my third attempt now in about a year and I'm struggling to keep up with the classes due to personal issues even when I've planned. Any advise please.

Give yourself grace. We’re all on our own journeys with different paces.

Build a plan that's realistic to your life. You need

What's your opinion on the current job market for Junior roles? Any advice regarding it? Ive been told itll take me 1-2 years to land a role due to the market.

Its going well, better than it has in a couple years. Check ?🎉celebrations channel!

1-2 years can be normal,it can vary for a lot of people. Some do it quicker, but the traditional route is about five years (uni/internship), If you get a job in 1-2 years you’ve achieved a shortcut!

layoffs are down, job postings are going up

The internship person here there are only 3 people in the company, it's a brand new startup is that bad?

Its not bad, just a very different experience. There may be NO process: no on-boarding, etc but you could learn a ton. It could go either way.

Just reached The Hunt in the program. Will there be a new hunt this October? Or should I just follow the huntober 2023 channel?

There will def be a new huntober, don't wait! Don't delay start today!

I'm at the hunt trying my best to get in touch with ppl in companies that I wanna join and even though I've tried to connect with many ppl I only got one chat

welcome to the game! If you’re using Linkedin connect, that could be a bad way. But that could be just me. My best platform is twitter and in person.

you should be sending dozens of messages over multiple platforms over spaced out time

Leon, you mentioned something about ADHD making us think we're boring in conversation, essentially self sabotaging. Can you elaborate more on that?

im not a doctor! Anecdotally, my experiences are my feelings on these things.

As for myself, folx with ADHD have trouble in convos because of the need to relate. Trying to connect with that person, but the connection is often the opposite of how you’re supposed to connect. Its just how my brain works. How to Win Friends and Influence People has really helped.

big advocate for therapy, talk to your doctor.

Mayanwolf: ADHD can make it difficult to listen actively without going off on a tangent or immediately trying to tie it to our own past experiences. I may have an offer at Salesforce. I have some developer friends saying it's a bad idea because it locks you in to their technology. Thoughts?

Working AT Salesforce is no different from joining any company. No worries there

Growth as an engineer should not come from your job for this very reason. You must always be training outside of your career to grow

I keep seeing that Software Development is a dying field that is going to be taken over by AI. What are your thoughts on this?

This is true, eventually and so will every other job. I don’t think its a quick as people think, maybe within ten years? By that point every major industry will be disrupted enough

At this point, theres no other field that you can learn for free and eventually get paid

if/when that happens you’ll have to move on anyway, take time now to learn

every company would still need people to integrate AI, be that person. Start/continue learning today

I've been networking hard in person the past few months but someone I networked with is a bit needy and an emotional vampire. How do I set boundaries? -You block them online. If in person, just say Hey i enjoyed this conversation, I’d like to take time to meet other folx and connect later! How do you respond to an interview offer after you were rejected for the job, that is, they contacted you to put you back into the running for the job? I've been going on some coffee chats. I'm struggling with feeling like I'm such a weird and awkward person that nobody will ever recommend me for a job. Help

image.gif failed to upload

not true. If focused on the job portion, you're doing it wrong. Coffee chats are to make friends. Just like any other time, sometimes that doesn’t work. Move on network and see who you meet. Try a different meetup, something else you’re interested in to start.

never eat alone, read HTWFAIP, talk here on discord

Just started a new dev job this week. How do I say "I don't even know what I don't know" when asked if I have questions without looking incompetent?

image.gif failed to upload

Very common question, ask your team and managers if its okay to ask lots of questions! Most will always say yes.

Make sure to be proactive when you get answers, make a spreadsheet of questions and answers, team will notice. Ask a specific person if they can be a point-person/on-boarding buddy to ask all silly questions during your beginning there.

make sure to bring them a coffee, or something else as an appreciation.

Any updates on the Colossal or other Agency jobs? The Agency Projects channel has been very quiet. Is there more information on another channel?

Nope, working on direct talent placement that introduced a lot of good and also new hiccups to deal with

Hey leon, I'm on the hunt, i have sent msgs to 60 companies, setting up chats via linkedin and email, and have had no luck, should I switch to events & x? Thts?

But how many questions total? Need to send more. Use different platforms

I cold called 600 people and no clients yet, tips?

maybe thats not working for you, a lot of ppl arent responsive to cold calling.

showing up in person goes a much longer way to the company

How do you respond to an interview offer after you were rejected for the job, that is, they contacted you to put you back into the running for the job?

This happens all the time. Not a bad sign, just got to the slightly better candidate

no feelings at all when they do reach back out to you, just accept the interview. Once get an offer, then can question the process

Suggestions for onboarding as a new dev? I know, "never eat alone, and document the process." Is there anything else I need 2 know 2 get up 2 speed/shine? Thx!

make sure talk with manager for expectations 3 6 9 etc months and how youre crushing those goals

How do we market as an overall engineer and not just web development? Say the position is not web development?

Youre a SWE, web is just something you know how to work in

A company that I interviewed with went with someone else. Is there a good format for a thank-you letter I can send back? Anything key that I should include?

Just thank for time, looking forward to a good fit

Code challenge given for interview. I have 30 minutes to complete. I know that is not enough time with my learning disability. Do I submit challenge incomplete?

Nope, ask for accommodation if you need it

How to study better? I'm very interested in being more effective. Thanks leon! Learning how to learn, put those in practice! As an experienced developer, can I contribute to Agency jobs? I don't mind doing it for free as long as it helps the community

image.gif failed to upload

Don't like free labor! Look into maintainers

Is DSA (Data Structures & Algo) required for Full stack engineer interviews?

For some, not all

How do you prepare for a second interview with the team but this time the CIO is included? Nothing much changes My work encourages me approve PRs, but I'm afraid I'm making their code base worse if I miss something. Advice? You don't have to do singular PRs, ask for a second set of eyes, ask team manager I have seen videos advising junior devs to focus on different stacks not the MERN, as most companies work with c# .net java, thoughts?

It doesn't matter. Learn basics, then learn what you need to for the job

Seems practical, but doesnt speak to the education. People don't often learn the code, yes you may need to learn that eventually,but start with the basics.

Stack doesn't matter, its can you learn, can you pick up the skills you need resume has 100devs & freelance employed mid 2022- pres. got a non-SWE job that is related enough to put on res. bad for resume to say curr. employed at 3 co’s?

That ends when you're employed elsewhere

what are good resources or what kind of work to grow as an engineer outside of your job to get better?

Building stuff

What is the best way to get feedback from a client regarding the entire process (consultation, contract, building, end product, etc)? I want to improve!

image.gif failed to upload

Just ask don't overthink it
