---
tags:
  - the-hunt
  - technical
  - networking
  - resume
author: Michael Govaerts
date: 2025-12-09
---

100Devs Huddle Notes
Skip to content Page list Copy link to this page Fri 12/9/25 Memory Dump   1. ​ 01:37]Michael Govaerts 8d61abb8b5da075befaff858861dba54.png ⁠ :   2. ​ I wasn't seated during today's Huddle and couldn't take notes. Does anyone want to please help memory dump what cool things you heard in this thread for the people who might have missed it? Thanks in advance   3. ​ [01:47]Michael Govaerts 8d61abb8b5da075befaff858861dba54.png ⁠ :
All docs
Pages
Huddle Notes by Author and Date
Tuesday 3.3.2026
Friday 28.2.2026
Fri 2/27/26
Tues 2/24/26
Fri 2/20/26
Tuesday 17.2.2026 - DIRTY 30
Tues 2/17/26
Fri 2/13/26
Tues 2/10/26
Fri 2/6/26
Tues 2/3/26
Friday 30.1.2026
Fri 1/30/26
Tuesday 28.1.2026
Tues 1/27/26
Fri 1/23/26
Tues 1/20/26
Fri 1/16/26
Tues 1/6/26
Tues 12/16/26
Fri 12/9/25 Memory Dump
Friday 5.12.2025
Fri 12/5/25
Fri 11/21/26
Fri 11/14/26
Fri 11/7/26
10/21/2025
10/20/2025
10/17/2025
10/16/2025
10/16/25
9/19/2025
9/12/2025
7/18/2024
07/12/2024 How to Network Deep Dive with Jason E. Torres
06/29/2024
06/21/2024
06/18/2024
06/12/2024
06/07/2024
06/05/2024
05/21/2024
5/18/2024
5/14/2024
5/11/2024
1.
01:37]
Michael Govaerts
8d61abb8b5da075befaff858861dba54.png
2.
I wasn't seated during today's Huddle and couldn't take notes. Does anyone want to please help memory dump what cool things you heard in this thread for the people who might have missed it? Thanks in advance
3.
[01:47]
4.
What I recall, in reverse chronological: don't sweat the interview process too much, even if getting to the interview stage and hopefully doing well based on good preparation is definitely something worth celebrating. You might think you do really well, or really poorly, and it may work out vastly differently than what you expected. No worries! Determine what you want to take forward and apply to future interviews, and what was weird or went poorly that you're going to leave behind with that potentially unsuccessful experience. (Maybe you opted not to advocate for yourself in the face of negative feedback because you felt shy, and next time you can leave that shyness behind and make sure not only are you getting meaningful feedback but also that they actually are telling you about +your+ interview. Leon said in +many+ cases RC (Resilient Coders) students will get very odd interview feedback and it will turn out there was a mix up and the RC student is being evaluated based on the interview of an entirely different candidate in the pool. Don't just walk away without asking for clarification or further feedback potentially solely for this reason. Maybe there has been a mix up!)
5.
6.
Regardless, Leon finds that the getting too caught up with the interview outcomes during the job hunt is one of the biggest factors that cause people to burn out and quit. (Getting frustrated learning CSS or JavaScript, in that order, is probably the other big hurdle.) Don't ride that rollercoaster. It's just going to make you nauseous. Focus on what's in your control, not on what's not. We have no control over how interviews happen or how they turn out. We have control over going through the 100Devs process of getting interviews and preparing for interviews, and as long as we're being analytical to make sure we're doing the right things well, the paid opportunities will materialize eventually, but we cannot control when they do. We can control our behaviors, though.
❤️‍🔥
7.
[01:53]
8.
Other topics that I'll expand upon if I can:
9.
Use ChatGPT to help you determine what to expect in an interview. Got a code review interview where they give you code to review, but know what the code snippet is likely to cover? Ask ChatGPT about what that type of code is likely to cover and where the "gotcha's" might be in terms of code that's not working.
Cohort 3 is likely going to happen in the near future, but Leon is still working out the details. Three aspects had made him hesitant to do a third cohort that he has now determined are no longer issues:
10.
1) He hates missing cohort classes, but that means he can't really travel and needs to be home to stream during a cohort. That's no fun, especially not for people in his life that are also impacted, so he has a new system with a StarLink and a little portable bag that will allow him to stream from anywhere if he needs to. He has been testing this and has been able to stream from the middle of nowhere ("In the woods"), and since he always uses a green screen, he doesn't think we noticed that he changed locations. He loves this, because he wants to try to keep the experience of him streaming very uniform for his audience, and he also wants to flexibility to be able to travel while routinely streaming.
11.
2) He doesn't want to push students into "a slaughter." Recently, with AI and tech layoffs, he didn't think pushing a bunch of students through a cohort and out into a challenging hiring landscape would be fair to those students. [Michael's note: Please remember, though, RC was still going, and 100Devs was still going asynchronous, so people +were still getting jobs+, even when it was tough.]
12.
[01:54]
13.
However, this has been the best hiring period he has seen in the last few years, so he's very excited about giving another cohort the opportunity to "graduate" into a good hiring environment. RC students are getting jobs all the time, and he has been seeing people get jobs almost every other day, so he's much more optimistic than usual.
14.
[01:55]
15.
3) He wants to make sure he can give people an edge, and while he thinks the Cohort 2 material still holds up incredibly well, and likely is enough to get people hired, he's going to try to add some things to Cohort 3 such as learning theory, emotional regulation, incorporating AI into the learning experience, and bringing friends of the community who have more expertise than Leon in certain areas into the cohort in order to help enhance the experience and what people get out of it.
16.
3+) Cohorts are also a lot of work for Leon and the mods, and ask for a significant commitment from cohort students, so Leon wants to make sure it's worth it for everyone involved.
17.
[01:58]
18.
New topic: Social Media:
19.
It's all very likely fake or carefully controlled posturing, so please keep that in mind if you start getting sucked into it. Leon timeboxes his social media time and his news time, and doesn't put in at the beginning of the day so that he has time to get ready to experience it without starting his day with negativity. The algorithm is designed to keep you engaged so it can either get more data from you to sell to other people, or directly sell you stuff. Please keep that in mind as you're getting very emotionally charged content.
20.
21.
Also, remember that internet strangers likely stop thinking about you almost immediately, so if some stranger online gives you negative feedback, just let it wash off you like water. (Leon used the analogy "Dust in the Wind".) We don't know the full names of our eight great grandparents in most cases, let alone very many details about them, so some internet stranger, or even someone much less connected to us, is likely not thinking about us at all shortly after we interacted with them, so don't stress out about what they might be thinking of you or give them any psychological real estate that you could otherwise use more productively, either.
22.
[01:59]
23.
Also remember that people are using social media for a variety of reasons. Some might just be sharing, especially with people they care about, and other people are selling themselves or trying to impress people with the best possible version of their lives they can muster, which may or may not be true.
24.
[02:00]
25.
Thus, you don't need to ride that rollercoaster if you don't have to, just like with the job hunt. Take the stuff you want to take, and then move onto more productive things that are more likely to enhance your life and the lives of the people you care about
❤️
26.
[02:02]
27.
Other things to cover:
28.
Beginner's mind/attitude (GREAT for coffee chats and meetups, since people love talking to those who are very interested in what they want to talk about and are often at meetups because they want to help the next generation (or inspire that generation to continue to be interested in, support, and maintain the things and technologies they like), but much less great for the job hunt, where you want to portray yourself as someone who is extremely competent, can succeed right from the start, and is a good risk (in terms of investments by clients or employers))
Also, NETWORKING IS HUGE! Huddle started with people, including Leon, talking about how networking often gets you freelancing, and freelancing is one of the best ways to consistently earn money when you need it, especially to put food on the table, because you have much more control over how much or how little freelancing you do, and when you do it, vs. a more stable, long-term job (Michael also remembers a freeCodeCamp podcast where the guest talk about how she +prefers+ freelancing solely for this increased flexibility and control over her schedule and level of commitment.)
29.
-- (Here's that podcast, where the guest is also a career-changer:
30.
YouTube
31.
freeCodeCamp.org
32.
How to become a developer in your 30s with Anjana Vakil [Podcast #162]
33.
34.
Image
image.png
35.
changed the channel name:
Tues 12/9/25 2:30pm-3:30pm PT Huddle Memory Dump — 12/10/25, 02:37
36.
[22:32]
37.
On letting go, especially of things we can't control:
38.
39.
40.
"... Let yourself be surprised – both by what might replace what you’ve released and by the power of letting go in general. As the great Thai Buddhist teacher, Ajahn Chah once said:
41.
42.
If you let go a little, you will have a little happiness.
43.
44.
If you let go a lot, you will have a lot of happiness.
45.
46.
If you let go completely, you will be completely happy."
47.
Rick Hanson, PhD
48.
Rick Hanson
49.
Let It Go - Rick Hanson, PhD
50.
Are you holding onto at least one thing that’s way past its expiration date? Self-critical thoughts, obsessions, defensive about your issues, or drinking too much. These things are relatively straightforward to deal with, even though it could be difficult.
51.
52.
53.
[23:47]
Anny (class 11)
54.
This is amazing. Thank you, Michael!
55.
56.
Also, Rick Hanson is great. I love the Being Well podcast he does with his son.
57.
[00:24]
58.
Thanks for the positive feedback and the endorsement,
@Anny (class 11)
59.
60.
I'm always happy to help however I can, and I really appreciate all that you're doing for our community, especially by taking excellent care of yourself, too
61.
62.
Thanks, as always, for choosing to be awesome.
63.
[10:44]
64.
On the health front, I share some more resources I've found particularly helpful here  :
65.
?(Mental) Health Resources that…
