---
tags:
  - the-hunt
  - interview
  - resume
  - portfolio
author: Michael Govaerts
date: 2025-10-16
---

from Ashton (Class 10)

Leon is making a Bob the resume builder AI based on what is most effective. No word on a release date. People in the hiring process: sourcer then recruiter, then inbound sourcer and/or recurring coordinator. Hiring manager is a part of the last step, like say at a large company when they have it narrowed down to 5 individuals. Hiring manager has the most pull but sources and recruiters are who are most visible. \*\*AT NO POINT IS AI OR A ROBOT KNOCKING YOU OUT\*\* Say a company receives 250 resumes submitted. All 250 go into an applicant tracking system queue. After they’re screened that number dwindles down to 200, and they receive 5-20 seconds from recruiters to determine whether to invest more time and read more. Then the number lowers to 30, who are the ones given more time. This leaves 20 who go through a technical screening test, which can be a technical phone screen or take home coding challenge. Then the number narrows down to 5: these are given several onsite interviews like coding, systems design, meeting the hiring manager. All of this ultimately leads to a single offer for one person. Leon says resumes should fall in an F pattern because that is how people read. Left to right, downwards. Make sure the F quickly and easily shows your name, your current role, and your highest level of education. Another formatting tip: XYZ. Accomplished X as measured by Y by doing Z. Explaining how is SO important. How to stand out without experience: “Have good communication skills. Have a past you’ve woven into your narrative. Be able to communicate technical concepts in a digestible vernacular. Show excitement for the position. Follow up. Be able to show a history of consistency.” List software engineering role on resume first. Have a mailing address where they are hiring if they’re not in your state. Avoid “learning and aspiring”. Technical, leadership, and impact are the key values. Language matters when a human reads it. Help / supported VS Led / Launched/ Which sounds better? Which supports leadership and impact? OK: Won second place in hackathon. Better: Won second place out of 50 teams in hackathon. Best: Won second place out of 50 teams in hackathon at NJ tech by working with two colleagues to develop an app that syncs mobile calendars. Never going to have call work and ask if you ~truly~ led versus helped. But you need to have the proof that you’ve done all of this. Here during the huddle Leon showed a two column resume which I believe he posted the link to in the follow-along-materials thread or the newsletter. Here is my screenshot: He said he thinks it’s worthwhile to use a summary for switching careers and you don’t have a ton of evidence to show why you’re there. He also said that this resume and the other he shows aren’t meant to be perfect, objective ways to do things. Different things will work for different people and not every recruiter will like the same thing either. FANG and big companies wouldn’t appreciate the two column format as shown above, but a medium sized company is more likely to. Also? More bullet points does NOT mean more impact. 3-4 is okay! Didn’t mention any opposition to 2. Projects section may be too much in first 6 seconds, may have a smell. But it’s not an absolute no-no. Jose Silva mentioned he thought projects are the same as student learning. Don’t call it one if you can help it, instead refer to it as a tool that does X. Try to make it seem like work. IG Hunt different suggested “stealth start up”. Lead and directed are Leon approved words but strategy is not, because it does not give the how, and is especially lacking if it doesn’t relate to software engineering. Volunteering is always good to list, make sure you still stick with strong wording. Putting the skills first can he helpful, helps the right keyword(s) be found and can help you move to the next stage, figure out what’s most in demand for your market or area to add to your list of skills. Leon recommends going on hiring cafe to see what’s being asked for in your area. On a resume someone listed their 100 hours project under their experience, which is simply titled Experience, excluding an explicit mention of jobs. It mentions it being open source, over 100 hours put in, with a link to it via github. This is Leon approved, because it IS an experience and would help with the six second pass without calling it a project, which Leon said smells bootcampy. Just have a title for it that aligns with keywords, lean into keyword recognition. Random but PDF is the recommended format for resumes, not docx. The recommended way to name your resume is to have it be firstName-lastName-resume2025 to make it easier for the recruiter to find. NEVER misrepresent that you have a degree, but you don’t have to say what kind. Max players enroll in a local community college for a few hundred bucks to show they have a graduation date. “The team can be of one too, only to tell them it was that way if they asked. -tehuberjohn “You always to position yourself as THE dev.” -Brynn “So many people I personally know have gotten great SWE roles in the past two months. Do you know what they all had in common? They had a coherent story, they practiced their behavioral questions, and when it came to tech? They used PREP or something like it.” -Sam aka Leader of the Pizza Gang
