---
tags:
  - the-hunt
  - networking
  - resume
  - technical
author: Michael Govaerts
date: 2025-09-19
---

100Devs Huddle Notes
Skip to content Page list Copy link to this page 9/19/2025   Copy link ​ 19-09-2025: 100Devs Huddle Notes Written By: Jess St-Pierre ⁠ ⁠   • ​ Coarsera course went paid but there will be a work-around   • ​ When adding AI on my projects can I use googles cloud or Microsoft’s cloud without putting my billing info? = Azure used to not require a credit card, but I will check… In the past we had a way to do that, azure not having to have a credit card put in   • ​ I applied online and I said yes to having experience in AWS - you wanna have those keywords on your resume so that there is a match with what they care about, modify each resume and skip AI when using to do this. They can smell it. Network your way in. If you’re clicking and applying that’s different (without networking).   •
All docs
Pages
Huddle Notes by Author and Date
Tuesday 3.3.2026
Friday 28.2.2026
Fri 2/27/26
Tues 2/24/26
Fri 2/20/26
Tuesday 17.2.2026 - DIRTY 30
Tues 2/17/26
Fri 2/13/26
Tues 2/10/26
Fri 2/6/26
Tues 2/3/26
Friday 30.1.2026
Fri 1/30/26
Tuesday 28.1.2026
Tues 1/27/26
Fri 1/23/26
Tues 1/20/26
Fri 1/16/26
Tues 1/6/26
Tues 12/16/26
Fri 12/9/25 Memory Dump
Friday 5.12.2025
Fri 12/5/25
Fri 11/21/26
Fri 11/14/26
Fri 11/7/26
10/21/2025
10/20/2025
10/17/2025
10/16/2025
10/16/25
9/19/2025
9/12/2025
7/18/2024
07/12/2024 How to Network Deep Dive with Jason E. Torres
06/29/2024
06/21/2024
06/18/2024
06/12/2024
06/07/2024
06/05/2024
05/21/2024
5/18/2024
5/14/2024
5/11/2024
19-09-2025: 100Devs Huddle Notes
Written By:
Jess St-Pierre
Coarsera course went paid but there will be a work-around
When adding AI on my projects can I use googles cloud or Microsoft’s cloud without putting my billing info? = Azure used to not require a credit card, but I will check… In the past we had a way to do that, azure not having to have a credit card put in
I applied online and I said yes to having experience in AWS - you wanna have those keywords on your resume so that there is a match with what they care about, modify each resume and skip AI when using to do this. They can smell it. Network your way in. If you’re clicking and applying that’s different (without networking).
Any advice on how to get started with AWS? = they provide good docs and free certification program,
roadmap.sh
is a way to get started as well. Play with these tools, take an old project and spin it around one of these tools. Use limits to not make mistakes when using these cloud providers! Free limits! I tend not to use them that dont have limits!
To prepare my schedule with Huntober, do you have a start date? = Yes starts on one of my normal days, that Friday or Monday. Usually lasts around a month. 3rd or 6th that we start! We meet every day. Try to do data-structures and algorithms, practical advice around interviewing. How to get hired, tea-spills, and mix a lot of stuff into it to make it fun. Biggest tradition we do in 100Devs. Typically around normal time 5:30pm EDT and go half and hour usually. I’ll share more after CYC.
How can I be kinder to myself due to my slow learning progress? = Slow learning pace is totally okay!!! Its like comparing a F1 driver to a hiker. The hiker will observe more, will maintain more info. Even if the F1 driver will get there first. Difficulty grasping even simple concepts = they dont know how to learn, that’s okay because you can learn how to learn! Dont just throw yourself into a book and you dont read! If you throw yourself into a lecture and havent been in a lecture in 10 years you’re gonna struggle. You need the tools!! You need things like chunking and space-repetition, etc… you have to learn the tools first and than the learning can come after. Every single person who learned how to learn has become successful at learning! Everything changed! 8 hours a day of studying = LeBron levels of studying. There’s always going to be outliers, where people dont get tired and dont loose focus. Dont compare yourself to them!! It is a muscle you need to build it up over time but also dont compare yourself to LeBron! Got to give yourself grace when learning! Build up the muscle to keep at it for the long haul. Measure the years not the hours!
When freelancing, when do you add privacy policy and terms and conditions to websites? = Day 1, with chatGPT and stuff. Cause of the google web crawling.
Received my first interview on class 39… how do I prepare to not snitch on myself? = You’re gonna have lots and lots of interviews, some will go well and some will go horrible! Not entirely in your control, if you’ve done all the prep we talk about. Then its just a matter of being a fit or not! You wanna be getting out of the interview knowing what other interviews will look like: be analytical for this first one. What went well and what didn’t go well. You’re gonna get so much experience by going through the process. Nothing bad can come out of it, as long as you focus on improving. Look at the Bank, for interview questions example. You wanna have a really good narrative, why does it make sense to be the best candidate for this role and talk about certain projects. Look at the “how to interview” class! My biggest pet peeves in life if someone sending the interviewer an email saying “I know it didn’t go well”, when that’s not necessarily true, you just lost it by saying that. The other person could’ve been grumpy and hungry. Dont sell yourself sort. Talk your talk. No humbleness.
Is a startup without financial stuff a good job? = Its not a job, its a trap. Please do not work a job for no money. Some internships with big companies are worth it but not often. Its not a startup that’s trying to get free labor.
What is the 100Devs wisdom on those that can only work 15-20 hrs per week? = Freelancing is great for people without structured hours like parents and stuff. I highly advocate for freelancing. There are a small amount of part-time remote software engineering jobs, you really have to network your way in. Easiest = freelancing. But there are companies who hire for part-time.
How do you handle competitive at work? How to handle bullies? = It comes down to there’s levels to it and so its hard to give 1 size fits all. Read how to win friends and influence people, works with a lot of people. Can pull someone to the side and tell them you dont appreciate their behavior. If you’ve done all the stuff then talk to HR and people. Is competition part of the org or individual person? I would talk to the person if its the latter. Time to find another opportunity if its a company culture thing!
I completed 100Devs last year but didn’t submit any homework? = You dont need to submit anything! Doesn’t do too much for you than certify that you did the course. This is a jobs program so wont help you too much in getting a job.
Im from Canada and not willing to change countries for a while, should I network with fellow Canadians? = Yes!! Mostly you want to network with Canadians. I would make a list of companies and add to your list to network your way in and than find countries outside your country and make it a secondary hit-list. First you do the Canadian networking hitlist and than the American or NA one! Some USA companies hire remotely and anyone from NA so should still take that into consideration!
Thoughts on walking into offices with my Resume? Not from those cities ? = It could probs hurt more than it could help. I dont think that’s gonna be a good look, especially some have security now. Dont really work in tech offices. You wont get anywhere with it. What I would do however: Find every living being that is in the company and city and say : Hey I’ll be in NYC wanna do a coffee chat? Should also do meetups and networking while you’re there!
My resume has both 100Devs and professional sabbatical? = You need to have a good narrative for professional sabbatical. Ive seen people put it on there and seen people having trouble putting it in their narrative.
