---
tags:
  - the-hunt
  - networking
  - freelance
  - salary
author: Michael Govaerts
date: 2025-10-17
---

100Devs Huddle Notes
Skip to content Page list Copy link to this page 10/17/2025 from Ashton (Class 10) As a kid Marcia was really into Excel, had dial up internet but could only play with stuff in Microsoft Office due to the poor quality of her internet. She was motivated by the burn out of being a farmer, specifically a plant scientist. She had to work from 5am-11pm! She used to listen to Leon while she was on the tractor doing farm work. While she did finished 100devs in 4 and a half months she did burn out and get sick, she paid the price and couldn’t get out of bed for a week. “If you don’t rest your creativity is going to take a restraining order out on you.” She couldn’t even open VScode until like class 10, couldn’t get it to work. She used a 15 year old Macbook, even Leon worked on a Chromebook for 2 years. She initially used pen and paper, would try to predict what Leon would do next using active recall. Re: clients She stayed local! She lived in Amish country and built a website for a dairy farmer, which is an underserved market. She gorged Python for an interview, had no experience in it and had two days to learn as much as she could, as it was a requirement for the interview. The guy who interviewed her basically gave her the answer for the tech question, really liked her communication style, how she was keen to fix issues when given feedback. She reached out to managers and hiring managers directly using a script she tailored that was consistently successful. She ended up being remote forever at her job despite everyone else getting called back to the office, getting a 50% raise and doubling her bonus ALL because she was looking at another position and her company really wanted to keep her. She didn’t even ask for all of that! The second company couldn’t compete with the benefits of the one she was currently with and asked if she worked freelance and now she works on projects for them that way. Re: networking She goes to auctions and country clubs, sometimes pretending she doesn’t know how to golf and scouts out for people with expensive trucks and horses to connect with. “Helps having a farmer background when dealing with the Amish. So essentially it’s finding your niche.” -Matthias (She told us she’s a third generation farmer) “Hi I’m Bob Vance, Vance Engineering.” How she introduced herself. “I’m Marcia, I make apps and websites.” Always keeps business cards on her. She attributes her boldness and bravery especially in social situations to working sales in college. Leon and her agree that sales is something everyone should do at least once in their life alongside customer service. Her mindset in sales and networking which changed the game for her inside and out: “just make a friend.” It helps to get to know their first name, find out about things that matter to them, and are big parts of their life. Can be used for networking in person or say interacting with people in LinkedIn. Also? Her confidence is fake, “it’s so fake, it’s all fake”. If Jake and Brad, random dudes online can be 100% wrong and say things with complete confidence, she can too. (And so can you!) While she knows it won’t work for everyone especially international folks she used Nextdoor, Facebook, and LinkedIn for freelancing. FB especially worked for her because it’s one of the only things Amish and farm people are familiar with using. When she negotiates pay she pretends she isn’t herself but Mark, Marcia’s agent whose only goal is to get more money for Marcia. Pretending she’s a man and someone else helps her be gutsier. She also completely encourages us to copy her negotiation script and use it freely. One of her particularly popular apps is Bunindex, an app for rabbit breeders. She got pre-paid signed up users, was well received by Amish people who secretly keep phones. Was skeptical about it being a good idea versus her 100hours project, which was for horse riding warm ups. She called it “crappy”. General advice from her: “Don’t be afraid to try stuff.” Also don’t freeze up if you don’t know something, it helps no one. Also? She manages to do all the things she does by keeping a strict schedule: she freelances, has her dev job, AND teaches at a community college (somehow). LINKS: Marcia’s youtube: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aKeJcMf5SBA What Marcia used to learn Python over the weekend for an interview, and was the first step to Python being her dominant coding language today: https://www.py4e.com/ Marcia’s templates/scripts for networking, negotiating, and salary negotiation: https://medium.com/@marciacripps/steal-my-job-search-scripts-proven-templates-for-networkin g-resignation-and-salary-negotiation-8e98aa7c21e0 Note: This has successfully worked for her with hiring managers and on LinkedIn.
All docs
Pages
Huddle Notes by Author and Date
Tuesday 3.3.2026
Friday 28.2.2026
Fri 2/27/26
Tues 2/24/26
Fri 2/20/26
Tuesday 17.2.2026 - DIRTY 30
Tues 2/17/26
Fri 2/13/26
Tues 2/10/26
Fri 2/6/26
Tues 2/3/26
Friday 30.1.2026
Fri 1/30/26
Tuesday 28.1.2026
Tues 1/27/26
Fri 1/23/26
Tues 1/20/26
Fri 1/16/26
Tues 1/6/26
Tues 12/16/26
Fri 12/9/25 Memory Dump
Friday 5.12.2025
Fri 12/5/25
Fri 11/21/26
Fri 11/14/26
Fri 11/7/26
10/21/2025
10/20/2025
10/17/2025
10/16/2025
10/16/25
9/19/2025
9/12/2025
7/18/2024
07/12/2024 How to Network Deep Dive with Jason E. Torres
06/29/2024
06/21/2024
06/18/2024
06/12/2024
06/07/2024
06/05/2024
05/21/2024
5/18/2024
5/14/2024
5/11/2024
from Ashton (Class 10)
As a kid Marcia was really into Excel, had dial up internet but could only play with stuff in
Microsoft Office due to the poor quality of her internet. She was motivated by the burn out of
being a farmer, specifically a plant scientist. She had to work from 5am-11pm! She used to listen
to Leon while she was on the tractor doing farm work.
While she did finished 100devs in 4 and a half months she did burn out and get sick, she paid
the price and couldn’t get out of bed for a week.
“If you don’t rest your creativity is going to take a restraining order out on you.”
She couldn’t even open VScode until like class 10, couldn’t get it to work. She used a 15 year
old Macbook, even Leon worked on a Chromebook for 2 years. She initially used pen and
paper, would try to predict what Leon would do next using active recall.
Re: clients She stayed local! She lived in Amish country and built a website for a dairy farmer,
which is an underserved market.
She gorged Python for an interview, had no experience in it and had two days to learn as much
as she could, as it was a requirement for the interview. The guy who interviewed her basically
gave her the answer for the tech question, really liked her communication style, how she was
keen to fix issues when given feedback.
She reached out to managers and hiring managers directly using a script she tailored that was
consistently successful. She ended up being remote forever at her job despite everyone else
getting called back to the office, getting a 50% raise and doubling her bonus ALL because she
was looking at another position and her company really wanted to keep her. She didn’t even ask
for all of that! The second company couldn’t compete with the benefits of the one she was
currently with and asked if she worked freelance and now she works on projects for them that
way.
Re: networking She goes to auctions and country clubs, sometimes pretending she doesn’t
know how to golf and scouts out for people with expensive trucks and horses to connect with.
“Helps having a farmer background when dealing with the Amish. So essentially it’s finding your
niche.” -Matthias (She told us she’s a third generation farmer)
“Hi I’m Bob Vance, Vance Engineering.” How she introduced herself. “I’m Marcia, I make apps
and websites.” Always keeps business cards on her.
She attributes her boldness and bravery especially in social situations to working sales in
college. Leon and her agree that sales is something everyone should do at least once in their
life alongside customer service. Her mindset in sales and networking which changed the game
for her inside and out: “just make a friend.” It helps to get to know their first name, find out about
things that matter to them, and are big parts of their life. Can be used for networking in person
or say interacting with people in LinkedIn. Also? Her confidence is fake, “it’s so fake, it’s all
fake”. If Jake and Brad, random dudes online can be 100% wrong and say things with complete
confidence, she can too. (And so can you!)
While she knows it won’t work for everyone especially international folks she used Nextdoor,
Facebook, and LinkedIn for freelancing. FB especially worked for her because it’s one of the
only things Amish and farm people are familiar with using.
When she negotiates pay she pretends she isn’t herself but Mark, Marcia’s agent whose only
goal is to get more money for Marcia. Pretending she’s a man and someone else helps her be
gutsier. She also completely encourages us to copy her negotiation script and use it freely.
One of her particularly popular apps is Bunindex, an app for rabbit breeders. She got pre-paid
signed up users, was well received by Amish people who secretly keep phones. Was skeptical
about it being a good idea versus her 100hours project, which was for horse riding warm ups.
She called it “crappy”.
General advice from her: “Don’t be afraid to try stuff.” Also don’t freeze up if you don’t know
something, it helps no one.
Also? She manages to do all the things she does by keeping a strict schedule: she freelances,
has her dev job, AND teaches at a community college (somehow).
LINKS:
Marcia’s youtube: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aKeJcMf5SBA
What Marcia used to learn Python over the weekend for an interview, and was the first step to
Python being her dominant coding language today: https://www.py4e.com/
Marcia’s templates/scripts for networking, negotiating, and salary negotiation:
https://medium.com/@marciacripps/steal-my-job-search-scripts-proven-templates-for-networkin
g-resignation-and-salary-negotiation-8e98aa7c21e0
Note: This has successfully worked for her with hiring managers and on LinkedIn.
