---
tags:
  - the-hunt
  - technical
  - networking
  - freelance
author: Michael Govaerts
date: 2026-12-16
---

\[Rushed notes. To be SpellChecked/Edited if I can make the time. As always, I hope this helps!\]

(Notes by Michael Govaerts, 100Devs Superfan:

[https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelgovaerts](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelgovaerts)

)

100Devs Huddle - Tuesday, Dec 16, 2025, at 2:30 PM PT 100Devs:

[https://100devs.org/about/](https://100devs.org/about/)

Part of the Tu/Fri recurring 2:30 PM - 3:30 PM PT Huddles, hosted on the 100Devs Discord by 100Devs Founder, Leon Noel

Sessions are focusing on helping people with “The Hunt” (for paid opportunities) (Timestamps to help follow the chat messages from Discord) \[Leon answers questions primarily from a Slido, where people can upvote the questions they want answered. Or, they can put their Discord hands up and ask live, and Leon just asks that live questions are job-related.\]

Q: “What would you consider to be “prepared” for the January hiring surge?” Leon: Always kind of waves to hiring. Always do HuntOber at 100Devs, it’s a yearly tradition. Jobuary also sometimes happens because January is usually big. January, sometimes March, and definitely October are the big hiring waves. HuntOber is the vibe set for January. That’s when a lot of companies get budget and start thinking about their new hires, and folks realize they may be able to get that extra employee they need for the team. Interviews tend to happen around January as a result. Huntober is trying to get people motivated so that they have a phenomenal January. How to be prepared? If you do everything that was covered during HuntOber? You’re prepared. Cleaned up online presence and LinkedIn, and anything else you’ll be sharing with employers. Keeping up with Banki and Coding Challenges as if they were interviews. Try to solve them on different platforms, because you never know which platform is going to be used for the interview. Learn how to solve problems using a blank environment with no bells or whistles. Some can solve really good DS&A problems, but struggle with getting functions written from scratch because platforms like LeetCode give them the functions to complete already. Once you get all that stuff dialed in, then you still need to network. Keep contacts warm. January is a great time to reconnect, even with very old contacts: “Happy New Year. Hope you had a great one, and I would love to reconnect to catch up.” December really didn’t slow down for hiring, so Leon thinks January is going to be wild for connecting people with opportunities. \[2:41 PM PT\] What platform to use for networking? Best place is probably LinkedIn and Twitter. Easiest ways to get in touch with people. For Coding challenges? JSBin, Replit went heavy with AI and Leon doesn’t like Replit anymore as a result. CodeSandbox if we’re practicing backend stuff. JSBin for Javascript and CodeSandbox for Backend is what Leon recommends. Networking strategies that are best for outreach? Watch the 3-4 videos in the classes that cover Networking. Madeleine (community member) routinely shares a bank of networking questions on the Discord. The classes are a great starting point, though, and then come to the Discord and the Huddles for more help. \[From Madeleine:

[https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/959571473188659280/1450619383243083918](https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/959571473188659280/1450619383243083918)

\] \[2:43 PM PT\] Holidays can also be a good time to recharge, and then you can come back far stronger after the recharge. Self-care should always be prioritized. How to prioritize for hitlisting? Use Hitlist Magic, and see what companies have hired in the past year. Those are companies that are worth considering. Only 30% of opportunities get posted publicly, so don’t wait for the public postings on Hiring Cafe. Reach out to the companies that you’re interested in, especially if they’re local to you, and you can form an ongoing relationship with them much more easily due to that local proximity \[2:45 PM PT\] SlidoQ: Is it worth learning to build desktop apps vs web apps, or should we stay focused on websites? If we wanted to learn to make desktop apps where can we start? Leon: Focus should be on learning to be full-stack, in terms of maximizing job opportunities. The number of jobs related to desktop development is far smaller than for web development. Best to learn full-stack web development and then complement it with whatever is in demand in the local area. Full-stack is in demand everywhere, and then look for local demand. Doubtful local demand will be in desktop development, but it’s possible. Can do Electron, ReactNative, etc. for desktop stuff, and many skills are transferable. “Don’t go chasing waterfalls,” or chase the shiny objects. Stick with what has been proven to be in demand, and then go get the job using those in-demand skills. Don’t fall into an endless hole of learning forever and never getting the job. Always new things to learn, but focus on the in-demand stuff, and then get the job with that in-demand stuff, and learn the things you need to learn based on what gaps you may have to get the job. (Are you not doing well in interviews because you’re missing key technologies in your toolbox? Then go learn those technologies, and come back and rock those interviews!)

TypeScript is dominant currently. Leon recommends FastAI if you’re learning fundamentals of AI engineering, but that’s as much Python as Leon would push people towards. Stick to the in-demand stuff. \[2:48 PM PT\]

“Practical Deep Learning For Coders” is the recommended resource in AI, but it’s +very+ tough to get a field that’s dominated by people with degrees (like AI), so he usually doesn’t lead people in these directions, as it’s very low yield for getting jobs for people who go through programs like 100Devs with zero preexisting technical or educational experience.

Check Hiring Cafe and go to meetups to see what technologies are coming up frequently in your local area. Not every job is online, so you’re just trying to find the right direction to go. Are most postings asking for RubyOnRails? Then go learn more about that so you can be more successful in getting interviews related to those opportunities

First look local, because remote opportunities are a lot harder to get. It’s possible to get remote, but local is always easier. SlidoQ: Working through 100Devs, love the community, but need a job ASAP. Any leads on where to find no-code tech roles in the meantime? Leon: Doesn’t have to be in tech. Just get stable in terms of your economic needs. The beautiful thing is you can find something less stressful, so you can put more time into your freelancing and learning. Finding something tech-adjacent can keep you stuck in that tech-adjacent role. QA and Support roles can get people trapped. They get comfy in a role they don’t really want, but they stay there and miss out on the better opportunities. Leon sees this A LOT. Most successful job for people Leon has placed out of programs like RC and 100Devs is Uber driving. They know how to hustle, they know how to work for the money and learn how to work well with strangers (clients that they drive around), and they know that Uber Driving is not fun and Uber is out to exploit them so they really want to get out of it. Teaching works too (Michael thinks substitute teaching is also a very easy option for people with degrees \[Leon brought this up later and agreed\]). Leon says the emphasis on education is helpful for learning and growth. Teachers and Uber drivers seem to be the popular jobs for 100Devs success. Anything that has really draining hours is hard. Teachers get school vacations off, often, so they can work on personal growth. Do whatever you can to bring sufficient financial stability to your life and then focus on education through 100Devs to enhance that financial stability and professional growth as quickly as possible. \*\*\* Quick spellchecked to here so far. Michael will try to do the rest later. \*\*\* \[2:53 PM PT\] \[From the Discord Chat, and read aloud by Leon\]: Numbers games and 1 out of 60? How to handle 59 Rejections? (Michael: Leon says that in his experience, he has never seen it take more than 60 networked-in applications for someone to get a job offer.) Leon: Know it’s going to be tough. Stop going on the rollercoaster (don’t focus on the highs and lows, just focus on the process). Successes are great, but the failures can burn you out, so try to treat it like a business. Call 60 restaurants and ask them to build a website? You’re going to get turned down by most. That’s the price of doing business. Don’t see each and every role as a potential opportunity that can change your life, as that can make the losses hurt too much. (Michael: Happiness = Reality - Expectations \[So keep those Expectations low! Negative would probably be better :p\]) Focus on the things that are in your control. Did you practice your Banki, Codewars, polish your resume, and hit your hitlisting numbers today, like you planned? Great. Celebrate that. Not the things out of your control like if someone responded to a message or said you rocked an interview. \[2:58 PM PT\] SlidoQ: If we can’t learn all there is to know about a language/framework/tool, how can we know when to confidently include it on our resume? After 1-2 small projects? Leon: I think differently here. No international committee for resumes. Just don’t lie, and then his bar is can I reliably build something with these tools? Then it goes on the resume if he thinks it will give him an edge in getting an interview. Could be a weekend of experience or a lifetime, but that’s Leon’s minimum threshold. Q: How many companies would you consider a good amount for the first round of the hitlist? Enough to work with but not be overwhelming? Leon: Minimum is 60, with at least three people at each company. Most people will do way more than that, but put the effort into building the list initially, build out the network, and supplement it with regular networking from your other activities, and that’s a good goal to hit. Remember, we are aiming for one opportunity out of 60 networked-in applications, as that’s typically how many networked-in attempts it takes.

Rare to join company as support and then transition to dev. People get comfortable, so that may contribute, but Leon doesn’t think this is a good strategy. Aim for the role you want originally. SlidoQ: What is your favorite Christmas cookie and yall better upvote this bc it’s a very important question in this joyous holiday season OK Leon: Loves making sugar cookies. Best buttercream icing recipe ever, but it’s an absolute problem for him. Everything made from scratch. (Leon is +NOT+ sharing this. He has to keep some stuff for himself. Go kick rocks. From the chat: “CookieChat is the only time Leon is toxic.” Leon will make this the Twitch channel point reward. Not the top tier one, but 100K and he gets a DM from him with the recipe, and that’s it. Hilarious) \[3:02 PM PT\] SlidoQ: Is there a recommended amount of time to wait before sending out a new coffee chat invite? Leon: A week minimum, and always give folks an out. “I know you’re probably busy, but I would love to chat.” The longer in between the better. Good to take a break during the holidays, and then use the New Year as an opportunity to reconnect. Follow Madeleine’s advice in the messages they sent (She’s active right now in the chat) Danny (from the chat): Most people aren’t checking LinkedIn at all. Leon agrees. Realize that you’re much more active than most on the hunt, so be willing to switch up your contact channels, too. E-mails to certain people is like putting them into the void. Twitter can pop for some people, though, so switch it up. Signal to Noise ratio is different for each purpose and on each platform. Some people are just good at sharing real advice on LinkedIn that wasn’t cooked up on AI to get presents (engagement/likes). People sharing battle stories on LinkedIn is what Leon truly admires and appreciates. \[3:06 PM PT\] SlidoQ: Is doing the Google IT cert and cohort for an IT support role and then grow into a dev role too much or should I focus on one thing? Have enough time for both Leon: Focus on what you want to focus on. Path might be more straightforward to generalist IT roles, but Leon is an advocate for Software Dev route as he sees it lifechanging for many and a path that remains very open. Leon has visited South Africa lot (responding to the chat) Programming Podcast has also been very popular (Leon and Danny hosts this). Leon feels special to be very popular on many podcast charts \[3:07 PM PT\] Special to see the impact they are having through the podcast. (Danny says it is listened to in 119 countries) Leon a big fan of FreeCodeCamp. Loves the curriculum, but he doesn’t care about certs. Certs don’t really make a difference. Good for burning for warmth, if they’re paper, but they don’t make much of an impact in terms of hiring. All about the skills you have and the proof of what you’ve built. Leon most excited about the English proficiency resources, as the language barrier is a big problem for people learning to code. Leon also likes FreeCodeCamp’s push to get a free bachelor’s for people. That’s the awesome stuff at freeCodeCamp that he’s excited about. Danny Concurs. No one every asks about certs, unless they’re getting the cert at the moment: ​

[https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/959571473188659280/1450625942945796247](https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/959571473188659280/1450625942945796247)

SlidoQ: I keep getting asked for code reviews from person I met in a event. At what point do I ask to get paid? Leon: The first time. Any time someone is asking you to help them get paid, you need to be getting paid for freelancing. If you’re helping someone learn, that’s fine, or point them towards community that can help them (like 100Devs --> Coding Help channel) so that you’re not the only source of support. Delegate to 100Devs community to give yourself more space No reason to get Associates in CS, unless you want it. Not helpful in getting a job vs. time/money invested. If it’s free, or something you’re interested in, then go ahead. Not a good Time/$ in terms of getting a job. Some people like degrees, but Leon doesn’t find it necessary to get the job. Doesn’t see it helping, and sees associates degrees slow down people’s sucess. (Summary of LiveAnswer: If they have a Bachelor’s, people can look down on Associate’s degrees. Leon has seen this happen a lot. Seems like it could be a classist thing. Anecdotal evidence from Leon that informs this caution.) From the chat: Certs are not what people are looking for. People are looking for proven skills through things you have built.

Bachelor’s can hold people back, too, when they could be really putting the work in to get hired without it. WGU can be speedrun in 6 months, but it’s still $6K, and takes a lot of time and effort. Leon doesn’t recommend this. Just do 100Devs SlidoQ: how to learn to do code reviews & merge github conflicts. Can you recommend any resources to get exposure and learn this skills and understand what,how, why pls Leon: Open source, community projects (100Devs has lots of these), Danny does DSD cohorts that have curated open source stuff with the community. Leon hates UpWork. Race to the bottom unless you have a specialized skill set. Some people get business off it, but Leon thinks it’s just too competitive. MarciaC95 (100Devs alum) has earned five figures, but it’s all niche in AgTech. Leon recommends building own network and e-mail list, because UpWork could close your account for no reason and you lose all of your contacts SlidoQ: Re: freelancing How can we answer someone who wonders why they should pay $$$ have someone build a website rather than using something pre-made like Wix? Leon: I never sell things to people. People come to Leon because the no-code solutions aren’t cost-effective for them. They want to go to Leon to use his skills and professional experience. He doesn’t compete with the pre-made free stuff out there. Leon can refer people to these for those with no budget, and then if they have more funding and don’t want to waste time on websites and tech, they can come back to them. Don’t sell someone something they don’t need, especially because when you do this, they’ll appreciate you for not taking advantage of them, and they’ll be very likely to come back when they do need something they can pay you to provide (or refer someone else to you.) SlidoQ: Am doing 1 project with young ppl.Their ignoring +know it all attitude due to age gap makes me wonder what to do if that happen at my 1st job as career changer. Leon: ““Hanlon’s razor is an adage, or rule of thumb, that states: “Never attribute to malice that which is adequately explained by stupidity.”” ​

[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hanlon’s\_razor](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hanlon%27s_razor)

”

Leon loves youthful energy, and tries to give people the benefit of the doubt, especially if they seem inexperienced. Most jobs also aren’t filled with one age demographic, so you should be fine. SlidoQ: You’ve shared examples of outreach messages to send before. Is there any new/updated advice on what to send these days? These shouldn’t be too long, right? Leon: Classics don’t change. Just keep sticking with them. Danny: Be willing to pivot. Best Leon advice: Form strong opinions, but hold them weakly and be willing to incorporate new information and change. (Best mindset for software engineering) \[3:23 PM PT\] SlidoQ: Are you still interested in doing a class on Mandala Charts for goal setting? Looking forward to it as I find it hard to organize the chaos that’s in my life. Leon: New Year will be for helping people with goal setting and planning. SlidoQ: Did a part time (pay cut) to learn new tech. Praised, hinted at FT senior. Offer: 6-mo extension only. Feel disrespected, but job is cutting-edge. Do I take it? Leon: Yes. Take the extension, and find a different job. Keep getting paid, and use free time outside of the job to get a better offer. Leon doesn’t believe in taking pay cuts to learn new tech. Hard to dig out of a pay cut. Any time a company hints at a FT offer, get it in writing. “If I do this, I can expect this type of offer” should be in writing. If it’s not in writing, it doesn’t exist. That should be your guiding principle. Get contracts Q: Class Pacing for 100Devs? Leon: Keep the recommended pacing. 2 classes per week. Need mastery of topics before moving on, and speedrunning does not help with mastery. Focus on going deep, not going fast, if you have extra time/energy. That’s what’s going to help you find success after the program.

Live Questions from @Alec: \[3:26 PM PT\] First ever paid job in a network role. Got it through practicing behavioral questions, and slam dunked it. Q: Big internet company, and wants to get into development (software dev background). How do I make friends in the org to work on this transition? Leon: 2 big books: “The first 90 Days” (get from library) “Never eat alone”

Starting places for advice. You’ll get foundation for current role so that you are liked and respected in the workplace. Never eat alone helps take advice of title to heart. Make really good connections with team, management, and folks on other teams over the next few months so when opportunities for transition arise, you can make that transition. Take “more responsibilities” in current role that are more development related, and that will give you the dev foundation that you can use to provide proof for a transition. Can also build rapport with your current manager by focusing on your current team to help your transition go much easier. Get comfortable in your current role and succeed wildly, so that people like you and will support your transition Alec: Role is very independent, so he may not be around other people in the org much. How to continue to network with this limitation? Leon: Virtual networking. Team channels on Slack, that’s how Leon would do it. Be public, be visible, and start making reaches. Doesn’t have to be someone at water cooler. “I see you work on this team and am intersted in development, can we talk about your experience?” A lot more likely to succeed with these internal contacts on the company platform vs. an external networking attempt on a platform like LinkedIn or random e-mail. \[Ended at 3:31 PM PT\] Leon: “You’re either working hard, or recharging hard. There should be no in between!” Happy Holidays! Very Thankful for those who are giving back to 100Devs and staying active in the community. Leon appreciates us showing up. Leon wants us to know that he loves us deeply, and it has been an honor to get to know us, and see us continue to show up and be part of the community. Hopes to see us again on the 30th.
