---
tags:
  - the-hunt
  - resume
  - networking
  - freelance
author: Michael Govaerts
date: 2026-02-03
---

\[Rushed notes, and I’m still behind on some projects, but hopefully I can spellcheck this at some point.\]

(Notes by Michael Govaerts, 100Devs Superfan:

[https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelgovaerts](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelgovaerts)

)

100Devs:

[https://100devs.org/about/](https://100devs.org/about/)

Part of the Tu/Fri recurring 2:30 PM - 3:30 PM PT Huddles, hosted on the 100Devs Discord by 100Devs Founder, Leon Noel

Sessions are focusing on helping people with “The Hunt” (for paid opportunities) (Timestamps to help follow the chat messages from Discord) \[Leon answers questions primarily from a Slido, where people can upvote the questions they want answered. Leon usually posts the Slido in the 100Devs Discord (#follow-along-materials channel) about 30 minutes before the Huddle begins. Alternatively, Huddle attendees can put their Discord hands up and ask live, as long as it’s about the job hunt.\]

These notes were taken on Google Docs during the Huddle.

As always, I hope it helps someone and that everyone reading this is having a wonderful day. Thanks, as always, for all the good that you do, especially by taking excellent care of yourself, too <3

Discord Link to Join the community: ​

[https://discord.gg/100devs](https://discord.gg/100devs)

… which is necessary to access any Discord links in the community I might have below. Just please make sure to be on your best behavior, and review the server rules channel, as I think 100Devs is a very special place to be <3)

Here’s a link to the 100Devs Discord server thread with notes from previous Huddles, too: ​

[https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/1410358067450740746/1464407740003778560](https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/1410358067450740746/1464407740003778560)

100Devs Huddle - Tues 2/3/26 - 2:30 PM PT - 3:30 PM PT

\[2:33 PM PT\]

Likely the last day of Slido since this is the last day of Leon’s subscriptions. May be have a different platform on Friday.

  

“How should I show my projects in my resume? I don't want to deploy as I don't want to pay for it, and most of my projects are full-stack.”

Tricky question. There are platforms we can use depending on where we live. IP Address dating nowadays, but some allow us to post full-stack project for free

Render, Fly.io, etc.

All have tradeoffs, but there are hacks around everything

Leon uses Railway, Percell, Fly.io

Different things for different purposes

Lots of them will give you subdomains. WhateverYouChoose.fly.io

Don’t have to pay for domains. Lots give you subdomains for free. Use those subdomains for portfolio, and do it that way

Fly seems best for free account usage, but they IP-limit in terms of who can get free accounts

Leon asked them about this directly, and they were vague

If Leon was HitListing and had a great portfolio? He would get $5 to switch to a paid account, using the subdomains, just to make sure there are no cold starts. $5 should be able to get all projects up on the sub domains to help reduce friction during a serious HitListing period, and this should get us far enough to get hired

Lots of the providers change. It may be the best one month, but then the next month it’s trash. Leon doesn’t like giving blanket recommendations because of this

Location can definitely cause your best option to be different, too

Heroku used to be the choice, but it’s no longer free (Leon says this makes sense, as what they were doing was likely costly)

They used to be Leon’s default option

Heroku going paid crushed a lot of people :(

Lots of options

Many are being shared in the Huddle Stage chat

  

“How to handle interview invitations? Pause HitListing and prep for interview exclusively, then resume HitListing when the interview is over?”

Comes up a lot. Leon thinks this is really important for things to understand

Biggest mistake people make on the Hunt

Don’t over-invest in one opportunity, and then have the opportunity not pan out

This is an issue because we need to play the numbers game, and an emotional game

Most people not successful on the Hunt because the emotions become too much, and they stop

Don’t put all your eggs in the basket of an interview for a week, and then get ghosted after the first round

That’s hard to bounce back from emotionally

If all your eggs are in one basket for an interview and the interview doesn’t go the way we want it to go, it’s very hard to get started again

If we’re hitlisting that whole week and getting other interviews and other things on the horizon, that’s fantastic

If an interview goes poorly, we have another one coming up, and so we can bounce back emotionally much more easily

NEVER exclusively focus on one interview to avoid the emotional hit if it goes badly

Timebox your day when HitListing, and keep adding to the top of the funnel so that you get more interview opportunities continuously (adding more companies to the top of the funnel, allowing more interviews to filter out)

Easier said than done. See where you’re overextending, and adjust accordingly

Try not to focus too much on the individual interviews

Once we’re getting an interview at a company, that’s 1 out of 60, and we should get hired by 60 interviews

50-60 contacts per week is a good cadence, especially if we’re doing other things alongside HitListing

That should get us about 180 contacts at the 60 companies we’re targeting

Leon, with all his experience, can do about 10 good contacts (with research) per hour

Madeleine’s new Coffee Chat guide gives us tips about prospecting that can help with this

Start slow, and then ramp up over time, so that we can get our hourly contact rate up over time

Will start to get templates that work for us and generate responses, and we can start increasing the number more easily

  

“Trying to understand the process from Hitlist message to referral more than ‘just make a friend?’ For me that’s like saying just fly to the moon. I’ve read WFIP”

If you’re struggling with this personally, find someone who is good at it on the 100Devs Discord and talk to them

For some folks, the ambiguity in this process is very overwhelming, and the easiest way to get a little more comfortable with it is to see how someone else is doing it effectively

Helps us bring rules to the chaos

Some folks need to make rules to follow and see it. Just hearing how to do it isn’t as effective as watching someone else doing this

Leon has four classes in the 100Devs playlist that shows the process, and this is really Leon’s process and the one he recommends.

Roxy, who shares her process in the #Chosen-Follow-Along channel, is crushing the process, says Leon

Once some people get the Coffee Chat, it’s very easy to make the ask from the coffee chat person for a referral

“Hey Sarah, I really appreciated our chat a month ago. (Sarah works at Bob’s Burgers). Opened my eyes to the industry. I see that Bob’s Burgers now has an open role. Who is the best person for me to talk to about this role? Thanks so much. - Leon”

Most of the time you get ghosted. This is why you’re contacting three people at the company

Sometimes, they say “Joe is the best person to talk to”

“Wonderful. Can you please connect me to Joe?”

Sometimes you get ghosted, sometimes, Sarah puts you in touch with Joe. This is an implicit referral

You have now jumped the pile in terms of applications. This is awesome

Other times, the company has an internal referral system with incentives, and the person can potentially get a bonus if you get hired

They can then +explicitly+ refer you through this system, and also help you jump the pile

Remember: You’re doing this at scale. Don’t put all your eggs in one basket and risk the emotional hit that could derail you

Contacting 1 company at a time? “You’re fucked in they don’t respond.”

60 companies at a time, and 75% ghost you? No problem. You’ve still got 15 companies that are still potentials

One of the 100Devs former mods got crushed in an interview, but had another lined up the next day

Rocked the following interview, got a senior role straight out of 100Devs

This is why we keep a large sample size. We can be the exact same person, and just get much luckier with one opportunity over another. Biggest thing we can do to maximize our success? Increase our numbers

YouTuber that Leon finds helpful, which underscores Leon’s point that no one really cares if you screw up. You care the most, so just overcome the anxiety and give yourself the shot, and maximize your chances by not being too invested in each opportunity

Leon doesn’t think about any 100Devs individual all the time, but he thinks about the community

He’s not talking about (random 100Devs Huddle attendee) PowerRangers55 with his wife at dinner. Something like that has never happened. Ever.

Therefore, it’s important that you understand: “No one thinks about the things you’ve said or done outside of the 15 seconds since you’ve said/done them. There’s just too much going on.”

Over time some people might be more memorable, but even there, there’s very little risk to say something, make a post, or make an attempt

Risk fo failure or harm is +SO SMALL+, especially compared to the potential upside

Scared to ask a question during a Huddle? If you don’t ask, there’s very little chance you’re going to get the answer you’re hoping for. If you ask? Maybe you typo hard and someone laughs. No big deal, but you might still get the answer you’re hoping for, and how great is that?

How many LeBron James Instagram posts do we remember? None, and this is a super famous, influential athlete

Someone in the chat: “I don’t think I ever saw it”

Leon thinks this is beautiful. Incredible athlete, who is on TV every other night, and many of us have not seen even one of his Instagram posts. There are 7 Billion people alive right now. If you can’t remember what’s on Lebron’s socials, no one cares as much about what you’re doing as you. Try to make the best impression you can, but don’t worry too much about it. If you mess up, it’s okay, and it’s even more okay if you KEEP GOING. Don’t fall on your face and then stay on the ground. Get up and try again.

“Climb cringe mountain. Send the e-mail, send the tweet, because it doesn’t matter.”

  

“How can we sell ourselves and our achievements? What to say beyond writing code or creating an application. How to keep it factual without being underwhelming?”

100Devs GPT is a good place to start

Asks us about our wins and accomplishments and learn how to talk about them in a compelling way

Great use of AI. Helps with Bio blurb and get the ball rolling about our narrative

Mostly about not snitching on ourselves. It’s both, though.

People are afraid to speak highly of ourselves because we’ve been conditioned by capitalism to not outshine the master

People feel like they can’t brag about themselves because it might be perceived as lying

Don’t Ever Lie

You don’t have to. But saying every positive thing you can, and letting people fill in the blank around those positive things, is the strategy to use, because those are the types of people you’re competing with

Always worry about underselling and snitching on yourself

As long as we don’t lie, we can’t oversell

If we really struggle with this, which is common, we can use the GPT to learn how to speak positively about ourselves

  

“What about asking for referrals for open roles you see now or from someone you just met from your hitlist? instead of contacting people you met a while ago.”

Should be consistently networking while learning so we have a great network when we start Hitlisting

Leon puts search back 12 months to see about what companies have been hiring

If they have an open role? Can go straight for it. Great narrative, great portfolio? Reach out immediately to your contacts at that company and “go for the kill”

20 messages and 15 ghost you? No problem. The five you get is enough to help you get the success you want. That’s why we’re playing the numbers

  

“would it be better to go with website builders for things liike ecommerce and scheduling than to try to code out an entire solution. Which do you recommend?”

Absolutely. 1000%. E-Commerce? Use Shopify, or something else off the shelf, and then when we get product:market fit, we can optimize.

Shopify will get us a long way

Shelf product depends on what we’re doing

Shopify is probably the easiest right now

  

Narrative GPT Link:

https://chatgpt.com/g/g-68e95630e9b481918051aa54d9deec8a-bob-your-story-crafting-coach-from-100devs/c/69701321-51bc-832b-bb0c-309c421d5878

  

Companies that recently got funding are good for HitListing

  

“I don't know how to ask for more money from potential freelance clients. I believe people when they say they land large contracts. Mine penny pinch to the max.”

Depends on the companies you’re going after

Companies that have lots of money likely have more to give you

Family-owned business probably doesn’t have a bunch to offer you

E-Commerce established brand has more to give you to optimize the hell out of their website

Leon always asks clients what their budgets are, and then he can work from there based on what they have, what they want, and how much of his services they can afford

  

“Do you have access to a hiring rubric we could review? I’d like to know the key differentiators btw staff/lead/senior/junior that’s not a job description”

All made up. Every company is different. Between two companies, a senior can be a one year person vs. a ten year person

No universal rubric that would be helpful, as every company treats every term differently

This can be frustrating, but it’s the reality

Leon’s view is that entry-level is someone that needs help, and senior is someone who can reliable solve problems on their own. Leads can think larger scale about the impact across the org, and its their responsibility to think more strategically long term

Most companies don’t seem to think like this, in Leon’s experience, but it makes sense to him

When we’re looking at job descriptions, it’s a “WANT” list, not a “MUST” list

Many listings are made up by recruiters who don’t really know what they’re asking for, so don’t worry too much about the descriptions and meeting all the requirements exactly

  

“I just started building out the hitlist, I find jobs on HiringCafe and emails with Apollo. Should I just be looking for HR/Technical Recruiters? Or SWEs too? Ty”

Using the right tools

Recruiters are the easiest to get messages back from, because it’s their job

In certain cities, this may not be true. Recruiters might be overwhelmed

Leon starts with recruiters, and then will look for anyone that is technical on the team if the recruiters aren’t getting back to him

Chat talks about the value of using multiple tools, because not everyone is easily accessible on LinkedIn (recruiters often are, though.)

Leon needs to get referral codes for these tools so he can show them how much traffic they’re getting from 100Devs and should collaborate more with us (ideally with things like free accounts)

Leon has tried begging in the past, but they’re very picky

Leon also has a new .edu e-mail hack that he’s hoping to share soon

  

“are most interview online? I am curious attending in person interviews would be challenging for me because of my job”

In-person interviews frequent for companies that expect us in office

Many people use PTO time for interviewing. Sad, but that’s how this works

  

“Can you reshare the huntober doc with all the resources you mentioned/reviewed?”

Don’t have this done yet. It’s on Leon’s to-do list

Leon planning to record a 10 minute walk through for how to use the resources. Thinks they need a walkthrough to help people make the most of them. Hoping to do this this weekend.

  

“How long does it typically take from a hitlist message to a job? Also do you recommend splitting time 50/50 clicking( for open jobs)vs hit listings”

Leon doesn’t recommend applying. May be the thing for some cities, but Leon doesn’t find it successful

Typical path? CS program for 4 years, internships every summer, and then you get hired at the end

You’re ahead of the game if you can do it with just a 30 week program like 100Devs

Therefore, just keep at it, and realize it’s a process

  

“what about your coworker. What value do companies expect from junior/mid/senior? speaking about non big tech can someone teach himself to perform as a senior?”

Leon has seem some seniors that can’t do a fizzbuzz

…

Mids have some autonomy, but still need support. Seniors can be mostly independent, and might need some high-level guidance

Easier to grow under the tutelage of others, but can work on to senior doing open source or freelancing independently

From chat: Even someone who is hired as senior is still entry-level on a new codebase

Leon thinks AI can help people get more senior with a new codebase

  

“Do I connect with the recruiter for a company first or do I wait until ive made connections and Im ready for the job”

Don’t delay, start today. Outreach starts now

Know companies you want to work for? Start making connections even before you start 100Devs

“Looking for opportunities in 3-6 months. Can I reach out then?”

This commonly works. Build the network early

  

“How can I avoid going into a PIP and maintain my confidence despite my manager's strict performance expectations and my lack of technical knowledge?”

Fix lack of technical knowledge, for sure. PIPs are often layoff tools, and have nothing to do with workers. Most of the time, they have nothing to do with technical ability

PIPs can signal you’re about to get laid off at one company, but another company may use the PIP to try to bring you back in

Each company is different. Companies with supportive PIPs are good

Have conversation with manager about expectations, and then can get buy-in from other members of the team to see if these expectations are reasonable

Always good to be public and visible is IMPORTANT

Lots of the time, people don’t know what you’re doing, so you have to be public with your gratitude, your praise, and your achievements

Use public channels

Lots of people don’t do this, and they are surprised when other people don’t know all the good things they’ve done. Need to constantly communicate

Everyone around you should know that you’re doing what you’re supposed to be doing

Nights and weekends are where growth comes from, not on the job, so make sure you’re always making time to get the growth in

New RC Cohort

Every day a Slack thread opens with asynch update, and at night a thread there’s a thread about a win from the day

This helps them get comfortable tracking their wins and what they’re doing each day

Having this history helps you advocate for yourself for performance reviews, raises, and finding a new job

Plan to start something like this for the 100Devs community

Tool ties to Slack, with a usergroup for the Fellows. Ties to a dashboard that sees how many checkins we have done, and there are bots that review resume and LinkedIn

Can see history of checkins and wins

Every single student (“Fellows”) has a log of all the work they’ve accomplished and all the wins they’ve had through their days

As soon as someone is added to the user group, they’re automatically added to the dashboard and tracker

Should only take a few seconds for Leon to set this up for 100Devs, and the Chat seems to like it

\[3:25 PM PT - Sorry. I clearly was forgetting to timestamp :( \]

  

Miguelisms asked for a resume Review

Leon could only do with a Google Doc, that Miguel had ready

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uDBV1G\_zfYQ8BdXyIAn1R5ZPPOG2V7-bTqjDuBqN1H4/edit?usp=sharing

Leon thinks the resume needs to be finished using the 100Devs Bob Coder format

Blurb needs to be redone with ChatGPT

Baristas make coffee, so tell something new about your work (not that you make coffee if you’re a barista. Your job title already covers that)

Need to follow X, Y, Z format of bullets

First bullet point is most important

Use the 100Devs tools to optimize resume before a live review, but then Leon’s happy to review it live

  

\[3:27 PM PT\]

Daniel Hopkins live

How best to study after work. How do I focus my studying when I’m burnt out?

Leon thinks studying before work is best

DH thinks he might have some learning disability. Leon thinks he might just be tired. Most people can’t study after work, because they’re mentally depleted

DH thinks his situation is a little unique. Over ten years of experience in the industry, but he hasn’t reached a big place in it because he hasn’t done some after work growth. Just been doing the bare minimum

Leon says he needs to figure out his why, and then shoot for the stars. If you want more out of the journey, then you have to build your life to get more

Not working out to grow after work? Go to bed earlier, get up earlier, and try it in the morning. Need to keep doing experiments until you find something that works

You have to make sacrifices if you want the bigger wins. No cheat code or magic cure. It’s just about putting in the work

Common issue for people to struggle after work. Timeboxing is useful if you really want to try after work growth. Good to maybe exercise post-work, pre-growth, because it can help your brain refresh

Best advice is to just do it in the morning, though

  

Dan (HUNT)

Life changed through 100Devs

Hour long interview coming up Thursday

Senior developer and graphic designer

Wants Dan’s approach to troubleshooting and improving the CMS

Leon says Dan has been blessed by being told everything the interview that will cover

Want to show he can hit the ground running with any problem they have, and he can prep his answers to do this

Have proof from the things that you’ve done to show specific examples of how what you’ve done shows that you can solve their issues

Lots of work for the next day or two, but that’s the best approach

Dan is optimistic he can do this

  

\[3:33 PM PT\]

UncleNoob (100Hrs Project)

Connection was looking to review his resume for a job. Wondering if Leon can look at the Google Doc, even though we’re over time

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LwB1m4s8LmSvLcLFl4hytVmOf7FOfmsoPFiP\_69JmPk/edit?usp=sharing

Leon remembers that Noob has put poop emojis on the follow-along materials posts

Proves Leon’s point that he does remember the routine interactions from people in our community, so we should always be on our best behavior :p

Issues with resume can be resolved with Bob the Coder Resume and Chat GPT narrative builder

Executive summary should help hook people and push people beyond the 6 seconds. If your summary can’t do that, then you should just omit it

Same advice that he gave Miguel. Don’t restate what a position does

Use X,Y,Z format

First bullet point should +always+ be X,Y,Z

Give projects real names so they seem more impactful, and not just random projects

First project is 100Hrs project

Should have real name, with impactful bullet points

If there’s not a real name, it’s not as legitimate

Review your resume, and make sure that everything you have on there is going to convince someone you are someone they should be +thrilled+ to move onto the next round

Lots of good comments in chat, Leon says

Also, only fire emojis going forward. No more poop

  

\[3:39 PM PT\]

GnBaker is Hitlisting

Using LinkedIn Connections. Free messages on LinkedIn

Connection doesn’t really matter. If they accept your connection, if lets you message them for free. Most important thing is to send the message at the end

Best strategy is to use Apollo to get company e-mails, which allows you to send a message

Free LinkedIn Messages are limited. Don’t waste connection messages on cold outreach. Usually just add people, and if they connect, then you can message them

Apollo may be more successful

Messaging is the most important thing, however you can get that message (either by making connections or by using Apollo)

Every person is a little different, and cities have different cultures

Most people on LinkedIn are probably looking for a job, so LinkedIn may not work as well to connect with people at companies who aren’t

Finding e-mail somewhere else, like Apollo, may be the better approach

Send that message, get the coffee chat, make the connections so that you can get the referrals
