---
tags:
  - the-hunt
  - technical
  - resume
  - branding
author: Michael Govaerts
date: 2026-02-27
---

\[Rushed notes, and I’m still behind on some projects, but hopefully I can spellcheck this at some point.\]

(Notes by Michael Govaerts, 100Devs Superfan:

[https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelgovaerts](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelgovaerts)

)

100Devs:

[https://100devs.org/about/](https://100devs.org/about/)

Part of the Tu/Fri recurring 2:30 PM - 3:30 PM PT Huddles, hosted on the 100Devs Discord by 100Devs Founder, Leon Noel

Sessions are focusing on helping people with “The Hunt” (for paid opportunities) (Timestamps to help follow the chat messages from Discord) \[Leon answers questions primarily from a Slido, where people can upvote the questions they want answered. Leon usually posts the Slido in the 100Devs Discord (#follow-along-materials channel) about 30 minutes before the Huddle begins. Alternatively, Huddle attendees can put their Discord hands up and ask live, as long as it’s about the job hunt.\]

These notes were taken on Google Docs during the Huddle.

As always, I hope it helps someone and that everyone reading this is having a wonderful day. Thanks, as always, for all the good that you do, especially by taking excellent care of yourself, too <3

Discord Link to Join the community: ​

[https://discord.gg/100devs](https://discord.gg/100devs)

… which is necessary to access any Discord links in the community I might have below. Just please make sure to be on your best behavior, and review the server rules channel, as I think 100Devs is a very special place to be <3)

Here’s a link to the 100Devs Discord server thread with notes from previous Huddles, too: ​

[https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/1410358067450740746/1464407740003778560](https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/1410358067450740746/1464407740003778560)

## 

100Devs Huddle - Fri 2/27/26 - 2:30 PM PT - 3:30 PM PT

\[Huddle started at 2:32 PM PT\]

Happy Pokemon Day

Someone in the chat got headhunted from a Hackathon

Hopes people post in the #celebrations channel

Big Update planned for Tuesday, likely from Leon tracking the #celebrations channel

  

Audio cutting in and out on Microsoft Edge, so Michael has had to refresh

Jason shared some good news in the chat

  

Only one Slido question at the moment

“starting my new role next monday (yippee) but i am nervous. I was sent onboarding stuff yesterday and do i need to do this asap before wknd or on monday?”

Hopefully, they have shared Onboarding context

Often there’s a guide to follow

Often they give stuff ahead of time that you work on the first day

Check the materials. Check with your contacts for clarity

Leon likes putting the extra step forward to get stuff done in advance if you can. Good to start strong

Nervousness on first day is normal. Lean into being the new person

Grace period for the first month or two

100Devs Wisdom for the first 90 days

Get there early, leave late

Never eat alone. Form good relationships with people on team

Get permission to ask all questions and promise to document answers so you never ask them twice and can help the next wave of people with their onboarding

Write down everything that you work on (Win log, great for performance reviews)

Talk to manager early to make sure you have good targets to aim for

Confirm via e-mail to have in writing

Can then circle back for performance reviews and raises and show you did what was expected (and hopefully more)

  

“How do I frame a layoff due to restructuring or short work terms on resume in a way that feels confident not defensive”

Most working professionals in tech have experienced a layoff themselves or know those in network who have

No stigma anymore. No pull-back

Everyone has understood this game for 10+ years. Part of the tech hiring cycle to overhire and do layoffs, especially in the post-COVID era. Don’t need to worry about it at all

Always have something after the layoff. Freelancing or something to show you’ve been active, building, and working with others

Short periods of unemployment not usually a problem

2 Schools of Thought:

1) Never make the recruiter think

If recruiter has to think about what something means, you miss an opportunity

Some people put “Layoff, 4000 people laid off”

Recruiter: Okay. Lots of layoffs. Not based on performance. No problem

2) Omit the negatives

Now recruiter has to wonder, and you need to have a good explanation for gaps

Chat: Double-employed?

Need a good explanation. Most employers don’t like their employees double-dipping and not giving them their full attention

Leon is wearing a Bulbasaur shirt that is greenscreening

Image is in the Huddle announcement if you want to see the full shirt

Chat: Drew is up on the YouTube culture

\[2:40 PM PT\]

Leon met them at CollectaCon and got the shirt there

Some vendors recognized him there while he was buying Pokemon cards

Had to tell people not to give him discounts

Leon is soft-resetting on Leaf Green for a “Shiny Bulbasaur”. That’s going to be his Friday night

  

“did you rethink/update your AI agent permissions/auth after that last programming podcast? What did you change? What have you learned?”

Last programming podcast had VP of engineering from Octa

Powers lots of the sign-on flows for many companies.

Lot around now about how to in agentic systems, make sure agents have the right permissions and are authenticated in the right way, especially as we scale

Leon has been playing with OpenClaw

Lots of his life he could give access to, but is apprehensive

Not happy with anything right now. Hard to find balance with overengineering when we’re iterating, and have stuff we’re confident in

He’s still work this out, and will share when he figures it out more

Still in the figuring out mode for a lot of AI stuff

Shout out to Octa for sponsoring that podcast and sponsoring going forward

\[2:42 PM PT\]

Chat: Can you run it local?

Yup. Don’t need a Mac Mini, but lots of people like being in the Apple Ecosystem to iMessage it

Need to find balance of time between experimenting and doing too much work

Leon said he finds himself in this trap often (from chat response)

James shared something in the chat that Leon liked

  

“is it ok to list tech stack used at 100devs on github/Linkedin/CV without context and project separately or we need to back up every single stack with projects?”

No international committee for the standardization of resumes. All made up

Test what works in local market

Leon thinks anything on resume should be backed up with what technology you use for a project

Goal is not to break flow of resume

Every skill you list should have something to back it up and you can use an example of how you used it

Local market likes FlimFlam?

Need strong proof of FlimFlam proficiency throughout resume

  

“I fail to consistently plan out my days; I do it for a week or two and then stop altogether. Do you have any advice?”

First thing is to figure out why, and how you’re getting value

If you’re planning out your days and its beneficial, you should probably keep doing this

Some people don’t get value out of it and stop

Could be lots of issues. Executive Functioning, ADHD (like Leon)

When his day is planned, things go smoother

Uses his Calendar aggressively. Shares this with family so he has both buy-in and external motivation

Phone reminders to keep him on track

Time blocks that are dedicated for different things

Lots of reminders directing him to do the things he wants to do

Systems in place to help him with planning

Systems are designed to help him succeed even on his worst days

If you can build out a system that works even on the worst day, you’re more likely to succeed

Figure out the why. And was it impactful for you? Get buy-in from people in social life

Get reminders and systems

Remove friction

Don’t get a wild Obsidian setup that is tough to manage. Use the easiest note app and use that to plan

Leon’s to-do list is one file that he adds to the top of. Other stuff gets pushed down

Things either get done or deleted. Very simple

Chat: How many hours a day do you work?

Start teaching at 7AM. Work until 5 PM. Family time until like 8:30-9 PM. Tries to get another hour or two in at night.

12 hour days, typically. That helps Leon keep his brain happy. He likes to work and be productive, though, so this may not work for everyone.

Why question:

Why is it a struggle?

Good question to bring to see if we need professional help

If there’s something we want to do but can’t do it on our own, then it’s time to get help

Overarching why

Why are you choosing to do what you want to do?

“What would udo if LinkedIn forced u to upload ID? There are many articles this week with Discord and LinkedIn and all the Persona data leaks. Can I avoid LI?”

Not having a LinkedIn is closing a massive door

Big part of professional lives

Unless there’s something safety-wise stopping you from verifying, I think it’s probably the most important to do this on LinkedIn

Only want you to have one account, and want to make sure you’re a real person

Very common to ask for verification in a non-US area

Personal decision. His thoughts and feelings shouldn’t dictate your behavior, but he thinks a polished LinkedIn is huge

Discord stepping back from verification, but Leon thinks it’s going to be coming to every platform in the near future

\[2:51 PM PT\]

Leon has heard of people get flagged by LinkedIn and have to verify to continue to be featured on the platform.

California is also potentially going to require verification on operating system (may be a meme)

Chat says they miss the old internet, and Leon agrees

  

“I was told all I need to get job in my area is Python and I don't need front end. Do you agree? Can I build just backend? What projects can be build that way?”

Leon would need to know your area

\[2:52 PM PT\]

Leon is a big fan of learning Full Stack Web Development. Strong Advocate

Build full stack and specialize later based on preferences and local demand

Now, everyone is expected to be more of a generalist with an understanding of the full stack

Be very cautious about specializing, as this can close us off from opportunities

Lots of the frontend stuff is also not challenging to pick up, but can lead to more opportunities. Easy win

Leon loved using AIM (from the chat)

\[2:54 PM PT\]

Leon misses before social media, when people were able to connect without all the social comparison and posturing

“When looking at roles on company sites, is it generally worth doing the "Join Our Talent Community" thing? Do hirers actually look at that?”

Leon doesn’t think this hurts. Doesn’t think it should be our strategy, though. Don’t lean on this as only way into a company

  

“I had my first big tech interview recently. I think I did well on one leetcode question but bombed the 2nd one. I think being too nervous got to me. Any advice?”

Why do you think….

Couple big things:

Is it true that you bombed? Did you go back and review your answer and make sure you prepped well? Make sure you’re not missing fundamentals

Nervousness is all about time in saddle, butt in seat. Need more practice and exposure

Couple big things with 100Devs:

Can’t lose a job you don’t have

Don’t ride rollercoaster of interviews. Stay smooth throughout

Leon tries not to get too excited about interviews. Helps him not get too devastated in the normal situation where it doesn’t work out

Get lots of practice. Record yourself. Practicing with others, like on the 100Devs Discord

Nervousness will get easier to manage over time. May not ever go away. Just need to learn to live with it

Lots of people with public speaking issues can do things like Toastmasters and other things, Commit Your Talk thing

This can help with comfort, but it’s really just about getting the practice in, regardless of how we’re doing it

“PREP” is also key for technical interviews, says Chat. Leon agrees. 100Devs tech interview method

  

“I am working through Cohort 2 and verbally committed to never send a Linked-In connect without a message. Now they limit those unless we pay. Any advice?”

Be selective with message that you send

Find another way to send message when you make connection

LinkedIn through the Group method works

Join common group with the person, and then send a message to them through the group page

Find them on twitter, e-mail (Apollo.io to find e-mails), and say “Hey, added you on LinkedIn, trying to connect. etc.”

  

“in the past huddle I heard freelancing can be done as agency instead of self-employed. Can you please tell us more about it how to advertise ourselves as agency”

Just terminology. Still self-employed

Agency is just the assumption that you’re working with multiple clients/individuals. No actual terminology definition around it

Often better to speak in grander words if your goal is to get a job. Agency sounds more professional

\[2:59 PM PT\]

Even if you work for a full-blown agency, you’re often still a contractor, so it’s the same thing as being self-employed or 1099’d

  

“People keep saying that at tech interviews if I use methods to solve a challenge they will tell me to do it without methods. Is this true? Shouldn't I use them?”

Have you tried it?

Lots seems to depend on how you communicate/collaborate in an interview

If Leon has someone who is struggling and throws out a method, he’s going to ask them to explain the method to make sure they understand it

If someone has been rocking PREP and uses a method to progress through things, Leon will not second-guess this

Communication is key

Has been in interviews where he has been asked to sort something, he used a sort method, and they ask him to do something more advanced

Helps test the base level DS&A knowledge

Leon is fine with built-in methods. Often the most optimal way to solve things

Leon loves it when people know the underlying foundations of the methods

Chrome has a sort method different from other browsers, and you know this? Great

Don’t listen to the internet. Use the interviews to inform your strategy for the next one. Nothing beats the interviews, especially in the local market, to inform your strategy. This should trump even Leon’s advice

Chat: Framing is a problem. People do the right things but don’t articulate well

This is why Leon emphasizes Banki and GPT narrative. Lots of blocks that prevent people from featuring themselves well

Leon blames capitalism, but it’s a story for another day (He thinks, I believe, that this prevents us from feeling capable)

“Is Bob the mannequin Uncle Bob?”

No? Uncle Bob is the “Clean Code” author, we think

Bob is lit, though (Leon showed him on the stream. It’s who he uses when he goes on break during the classes)

Manchester United scarf

Pokemon City championship medals

“Bob’s kind of lit”

Lots of bling. Definitely dripping

\[3:04 PM PT\]

“How do you feel about posting your projects on LinkedIn or twitter?”

YOU SHOULD BE DOING IT! Every single day and week

Put it up there. Build in public

If you learn something specifically in programming or AI, there are a million other people who don’t know. Don’t write your content for the TurboNerd that knows this stuff. Write for the people who don’t know it yet

Don’t care about the four super trolls. Focus on the millions of other people who might be interested in what you have to say (and, from Michael, who you can potentially help <3 )

Chat says it’s a badge of honor if you post something and get a “Well, actually”

Big joke in Leon’s friend group. Just yell “NERD” to each other a lot

With a newer friend, and they were eating lunch somewhere (Cheesecake Factory)

Telling story about how they yell nerd at each other

Dropped him off at the middle of Harvard Square. People all around. Yelled “NERD” at the friend as he drove off

Wife told him as they drove off that the girl he screamed at was in the bathroom and missed the nerd story

Last time Leon talked to this person again, likely because they had no idea why Leon yelled and them like that

“Oops” \[Leon giggling\]

Chat: “How to Lose Friends and Influence People” Leon LOL’d

  

“Am no experience career changer. How many projects should I list in CV as I have nothing else and not sure if I can list doing freelancing - no paid project yet”

Have to think of everything in terms of steps

Start with what you have

One project? Put the project. Add two as you get them

More projects? List the better projects. More clients? List the better clients where you did/made more

Be quick to change your resume and project list as stuff improves

100Devs emphasizes paid client. You should really try to get one. It +really+ makes a difference to have someone pay you

At the end of 100Devs, you’ll likely have a much different resume that what you had in the beginning and throughout the process

Start with what you’ve got, and improve over time

Chat: Boston Drivers?

Leon thinks California drivers are way worse. Boston is competent, but wild drivers

If you’re a wild driver, once the snow hits in Boston, you crash your car. Teaches you how to handle car well

Wind up with wild drivers who are competent

Los Angeles doesn’t have a forcing method to shake out the silliness

Wild drivers who have no idea how to handle car

Speed up to get in front of you, then slow down to exit, as opposed to just getting behind you and exiting

Leon +HATES+ this in LA driving. Just merge behind me. It’s not hard

Shakes with rage every time this happens

\[3:11 PM PT\]

Video of the new crosswalk. Crosswalk brick where you hold a brick while crossing, and cars will stop because they’re threatened by the brick

  

“What is better do virtual hackathon with team of total 4 strangers or go solo to make sure project gets done and no one breaks code it just before deadline?”

Depends

If you’re going to a Hackathon, it’s to make friends. Leon is not a competitive Hackathoner

Go make friends, have fun, meet people. He’ll always pick strangers. Network, meet people, have fun building with strangers

Some people take Hackathons very seriously

RC (Resilient Coders) Cohort had a group that just rocked Hackathons. Good performance at previous hackathons? Can stick with this group and build up

Leon mostly about having fun and meeting people, though

Leon says his ASMR videos are on the OnlyFans (joking)

His educational stuff is free, he says. The other stuff is premium <3

Chat: “OnlyBob” Leon LOL’d

ASMR reading of the React doc? Asked chat?

Leon said he would do it if we all promise to put it on our YouTube Sleep Playlist (Leon laughing)

  

“Any advice before scoping and pricing a client portal for a real estate company? I'm handling the frontend and meeting their backend engineer on Monday”

Figure out what budget is first and foremost

“What is your budget to get this done? Wonderful. What do you want to get done at this price point?”

Only then, do you scope

Chat talked about sleep playlist

Leon says something about pawn videos really help him fall asleep, better than meds

“You’re a medieval peasant, here are 40 ways you’ll die”

“What will life be like as a medieval peasant”

He said this channel went really wild, but it was good in the beginning for him

Ballpark budget, then worry about pricing after

  

“I got gifted my first raspberry pie and don't know how to start with it, and what to do with it? Do you have any idea or sugestions or resources please?”

You eat it, Silly. (joking)

Don’t like putting his pies in the fridge. Doesn’t like the cold affecting the crust

Leon just joked this

Chat saying someone should cut his mic

Rasberry Pi is a tech thing. Making fun the typo

Lots of Leon’s Pi stuff is from YouTube

Pi is just a computer that you can plug into. Nothing special

Do sell hats or attachments for the Pi that can help it do stuff

Different from Arduino where you have to program it more

Pi can be treated like a normal Linux machine. Just play with it

Youtube and Reddit are good resources for Leon

Find projects you can do on the Pi

OpenClaw

Alternative Internet

Lots of projects using Pi’s

Leon has an offline internet that has a Wifi Signal

Has all of Wikipedia and Ted Talks

Leon has helped build computer labs around the world that feature this offline internet of content

PiHole in the chat

Lots of good resources, including the offline Wikipedia stuff, shared in the chat

\[3:18 PM PT\]

  

“in live coding if you can't remember syntax what do you do? ask to google or use ai or something else”

Like an interview? Or on Twitch?

Twitch: You google it, or ask chat

Interview: It depends on what they allow. Always ask +before+ the interview, and then you’ll know what to expect

“I talked to Y before interview, and they said this was allowed…”

PREP’ing can really come in handy

Get people to say yes and help you the entire time. Makes it very natural for them to help you when you get stuck

PREP’s big value is to help build rapport

Most companies instruct interviewers to give you a hint

Google’s lead recruiter told Leon specifically this. You have to ask for the hint, and you have to get to the point where it’s helpful for you

Always communicating during interview is key

  

“Just got a new job with a government agency in a construction field. Any tips to move sideways into technology side of things?”

\[3:20 PM PT\]

Tech is often separate from the groups

Not every group has own tech team. Often uses outside consultants

If there’s a tech arm of the group?

Normal strategy is apply. Never eat alone. Build good rapport and float idea that you’ll be interested in more technical aspects

More about enhancing current role

Take on more technical bits, and then can float idea about moving to tech side of org

Say you’re interested in opportunities on the tech team. Get manager buy-in and team buy-in, and make your switch

Chat talked about value of getting to know consultants, which Leon agreed with

  

“Will there be an announcement outside of the calls that a Cohort 3 launch date is announced?”

All announcements are done in the newsletter

Leon wants us to open up every newsletter, click on everything, because he wants engagement

He’s joking, though

  

\[3:23 PM PT\]

When Leon sends the newsletters, that will be the way

He only really sends these when he thinks there’s something important to share. Tries not to overwhelm us

Chat asking for monthly newsletter, which Leon is fine with

Reply to one of the e-mails to make sure it doesn’t go to Spam or a Promotions folder

This helps e-mail providers realize 100Devs newsletters is a valuable e-mail for people. It’s a very big help for the 100Devs community for us to let our e-mail provider know that the newsletter is important to us

Can also turn on ping notifications on Discord to make sure we don’t miss anything

Helps us stay informed so we don’t miss stuff. Leon tries not to overwhelm us.

  

“Hi Leon, should I create a portfolio site before I finish my 100-hour project?”

Yup. Takes a while for the SEO stuff to kick in, so put it out early so you can start to rank on search engines. The earlier the better

Chat: “Let it bake” Exactly

\[3:25 PM PT\]

  

“Is Twitter still as good for networking as it was a few years ago? I keep hearing not but it's from non-tech folk. There may be some political influence in that”

Leon thinks it might be better now

Yeah, for sure. Fell out of favor due to politics

Leon thinks it’s the only place where people aren’t fully overwhelmed with work stuff

LinkedIn mostly people looking for jobs

E-mail is often full of noise

Twitter is something people may often check, especially if they post often

One of Leon’s best methods to communicate with people

Don’t use the “For You” page on Twitter

Just look at people that you’re following

Helps reduce the rage-bait on Twitter

Leon thinks BlueSky is great, but Twitter is often much more active

\[3:27 PM PT\]

Leon gets that some people don’t like Twitter

Still thinks it has immense value in the job search, but respects those who don’t like the politics

Leon’s Twitter feed is full of Pokemon stuff right now, which he loves

Pokemon, AlphaSchool, and ClawBot for homeschooling

95% of Leon’s feed right now.

  

“what sites or sources can we use to find Start ups companies? (LinkedIn doesn't seem to be cutting it)”

Couple that Leon has shared in the past

The WatchListAI

Shows people who have raised fundraising

“BroJo”?

HitList magic inside of Google search will surface all sorts of companies

“WellFound” in the chat

Leon thinks this is okay, but not as good as it used to be

\[3:29 PM PT\]

Leon likes Pokemon Wave and Wind getting updated graphics.

Still going to play it (from the chat)

  

“How would you feel about moving from a modern startup dev role to working with enterprise tools like AEM in a corporate environment?”

\[3:29 PM PT\]

Thinks this depends on what you want out of career and pay

Bigger orgs often have more stability, pay, but less growth

Smaller teams can be a preference for lots of startups, and can provide a better environment

Startup to Corp gives you other unique experiences

How to manage larger orgs of people and larger codebases

Can help keep your resume better rounded

Leon thinks this is a personal preference thing

  

\[3:31 PM PT\]

Happy Pokemon Day!

“May all your catches go on the first try”

  

See you next Tuesday <3
