---
tags:
  - the-hunt
  - technical
  - resume
  - salary
author: Michael Govaerts
date: 2026-01-27
---

\[Rushed notes, and I’m still behind on some projects, but hopefully I can spellcheck this at some point.\]

(Notes by Michael Govaerts, 100Devs Superfan:

[https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelgovaerts](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelgovaerts)

)

100Devs:

[https://100devs.org/about/](https://100devs.org/about/)

Part of the Tu/Fri recurring 2:30 PM - 3:30 PM PT Huddles, hosted on the 100Devs Discord by 100Devs Founder, Leon Noel

Sessions are focusing on helping people with “The Hunt” (for paid opportunities) (Timestamps to help follow the chat messages from Discord) \[Leon answers questions primarily from a Slido, where people can upvote the questions they want answered. Leon usually posts the Slido in the 100Devs Discord (#follow-along-materials channel) about 30 minutes before the Huddle begins. Alternatively, Huddle attendees can put their Discord hands up and ask live, as long as it’s about the job hunt.\]

These notes were taken on Google Docs during the Huddle.

As always, I hope it helps someone and that everyone reading this is having a wonderful day. Thanks, as always, for all the good that you do, especially by taking excellent care of yourself, too <3

Discord Link to Join the community: ​

[https://discord.gg/100devs](https://discord.gg/100devs)

… which is necessary to access any Discord links in the community I might have below. Just please make sure to be on your best behavior, and review the server rules channel, as I think 100Devs is a very special place to be <3)

Here’s a link to the 100Devs Discord server thread with notes from previous Huddles, too: ​

[https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/1410358067450740746/1464407740003778560](https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/1410358067450740746/1464407740003778560)

100Devs Huddle - Tues 1/27/26 - 2:30 PM PT - 3:30 PM PT

\[Huddle Started at 2:31 PM PT, Leon was Hosting\]

Lots of people talking about being cold, and getting new jobs in the chat Leon asks that people share their successes in the #celebrations channel, as it really helps encourage the rest of the community to continue on their journey

New Coffee Chat Guide from Madeleine \[100Devs Community Hero\] that +also+ helps us do the prospecting for people to chat with:

[https://madeleinepbelanger.substack.com/p/how-to-coffee-chat](https://madeleinepbelanger.substack.com/p/how-to-coffee-chat)

Huddle Announcement: ​

[https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/738891289071714388/1465819914425340227](https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/738891289071714388/1465819914425340227)

Mentions a Programming Podcast episode where Logan and Danny interviewed Logan Kilpatrick, a Google Gemini lead, about what Google’s doing with AI and how Gemini is seeking to serve an AI utility function – Analytics of Spotify and YouTube seem to really reward content creators who have viewers that watch all the way through, so try to run the entire episode however you can

\[2:38 PM PT\] From chat: Advice for just starting 100Devs? Huddles twice a week, ask for help on Discord (available 24/7) Don’t go through your days like an accident. Make a plan, and stick to it Do the Homework! Everything is intentional in 100Devs. None of the assignments are fluff, and the repetition is important for solidifying mastery and building a strong foundation that can last for a 30 year career.

“Whats the best way to find freelance work, is cold calling the way?” Depends on the person. Best way is to let +everyone+ we know know that we’re freelancing Old friends, family members, groups we belong to (church, community groups) “I am a software engineer that builds websites and web applications.” Have a landing page or a business card that you can share with folks and help showcase what you do This first layer, of letting everyone in our radius know, is often the highest yield for helping people find opportunities, especially in freelancing The difference between finding a client and not finding a client, is that some people are willing to message everyone in their phone book, and some people don’t. The people willing to make the effort are the same people that get the rewards. “Fortune favors the bold.” Person you met on vacation 10 years ago? Reach out. Any contact you’ve ever made is a potential opportunity 2nd base: Being local is your superpower Restaurants and small businesses are getting up weekly for building a better website Leon’s boxing trainer gets hit up twice a week for a new website Lots of people are mass dialing to sell stuff. Being local and having a relationship with someone is a huge plus Local means you can walk into a building and say you’re real, here, and available Don’t need to actually show up, but let people know that you’re local and can show up whenever they want Sets you apart from the remote people trying to sell them Other strategies: Platforms aren’t the best unless we niche down, as it’s often a race to the bottom Some 100Devers have found some success Most people should be able to get first client by using existing contacts and going local Don’t usually need to use other strategies to find clients if we do this. \[2:43 PM PT\] Tell people in your casual circles. This is what Leon is talking about. Just mention what you do, and someone always needs someone, and no one is going to trust a random like they will trust a warm connection \[Based on a comment from the chat about something getting work from a comment in a Pilates class\] Not just selling website or app. You’re fixing a problem they have, or solving some business need. This helps unlock a new level of freelancing. If you think you’re just a website builder, you may peg yourself to small amounts of money. Helping with lead generation? That’s a huge revenue generator and should give you a large share of that revenue Leon solves problems for people and then finds a price that works with their budget Many businesses don’t want to spend the time and effort do figure out their tech needs. They want to focus on other things, so they’re willing to pay you to do this Struggling businesses probably aren’t up for this, but you just need to find the right customers Leon has also said don’t sell stuff to people if they don’t need it. Establishing trust and rapport will pay dividends when they do actually have something you need and will come to you because they know you didn’t take advantage of them before \[2:46 PM PT\] Slido: “Got 1st tech job due to SWE freelance client work & 100Devs. TY!! Title is Solutions Associate, can I negotiate it to Software Engineer? Contract not yet signed” Should discuss this live in Huddle. Everything is negotiable, though, and this is definitely something to negotiate Titles are great to negotiate, especially if salary, compensation, benefits, etc. are at a dead end Titles cost nothing to a company and are therefore not difficult to negotiate Way Leon would do it: “I’m super excited about the offer, can’t wait to join, looking for long term growth. Please help me say yes. Couldn’t get wiggle room on pay or benefits, and I need to make a decision that’s good for my family. Can you get me somewhere that the more effort and energy I put into this role will allow me to get that effort out of it. Engineering is going to be a large part of what I’m working on. Can we please get Engineering in the title? That will be what I need to have in order to sign with you today.” From chat: Someone got $15K extra at job because they ask for it. Always ask.

\[2:49 PM PT\] “Should I finish 100devs first, or focus on learning what’s in demand now based on the 2026 coding roadmap episode?” Always finish the course first. It covers the fundamentals, and then you can add the extras on top for the present market If you keep chasing the hot things, you don’t have the fundamentals that are going to help you get through the interviews that you need to get through Leon still stands by the 100Devs classes. They still work, and the 100Devs community helps a lot, too From MayanWolfe in chat: Companies are likely going to be 10 years behind on their tech stack anyway. Unlikely we’ll need the new hot things ​

[https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/959571473188659280/1465841451316543732](https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/959571473188659280/1465841451316543732)

Do the foundational stuff, then look to see what’s in demand in our local market and within the opportunities/companies we are looking for Some companies are still potentially using floppy disks “Phoenix Project” book that Leon read covers this. Trying to progress from legacy systems to newer stuff

\[2:53 PM PT\] “At what age do interviewers stop considering you seriously as a 1st time SWE? I’m a career switcher and MUCH older than most candidates. Suggestions?” Leon doesn’t think people care. Can structure resume and bio so this is less of a concern. Might find some people that are prejudiced in this regard, but it’s much more rare than people realize Just need to show that you’re competent and can solve problems immediately People often look for excuses for why they shouldn’t pursue opportunities. This should not be one of them. Focus on the 100Devs fundamentals for establishing your professional image, and you’ll be set Can remove years from degree on resume/LinkedIn, but this is likely a very small part of it. Focus on the 100Devs fundamentals to present yourself as a competent, capable software engineer, and you should be fine From chat, 40+ SWE with no issues:

[https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/959571473188659280/1465842467323642100](https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/959571473188659280/1465842467323642100)

Can also focus on companies that don’t have these hangups. Remember, at 100Devs, we don’t optimise for the outliers, we focus on what works for the majority MayanWolfe says they’re 35 and are often the youngest member of their team

\[2:56 PM PT\] “Should you include your graduation date on your cv if you have recently graduated in cs?” Yes. Some roles are specific to new grads. In general, can A/B test this. Pursue with the date on, pursue with the date off, and see which we seem to do better with Doing experiments like this with the stuff we’re concerned about is a great way to go about it, and share your experiences in the 100Devs community so we can all experiment and grow together!

\[2:57 PM PT\] “What is the best way to learn technical jargon?” Listen to technical podcasts. Leon highly recommends the Programming Podcast (personal plug), that they release weekly. For Leon: He reads HackerNews every day, and if there’s a word he doesn’t recognize on the first page, he looks it up. 30-60 minutes in the beginning, and now it’s very quick. Read comments to see what people are arguing about This allows Leon to hang in any technical conversation, even if he hasn’t used the tech, because he remembers relevant discussions and can speak with that knowledge The Verge and ArsTechnica were also mentioned in the chat Podcasts: ShopTalk show, CSS \[CripsBane?\] <- Web Dev Podcasts Leon walks a lot, 50% of the time he’s listening to a podcast Try out a bunch. Some may fit better, and your preferences can change

\[3:00 PM PT\] “Underqualified for a position, but confident I’ll excel with some guidance and a little bit of time on the job. How to address this in an interview?” YOU DON’T! You either portray that you can solve their problems day one, or you don’t say anything at all Don’t try to sell them on hiring you. You need to demonstrate that you’re capable of solving their problem Ex. Cat Herding New specialty gate that herds cats and has cat-chasing robots? Talk about how great you are with cats, the robotics experience you have, your experience with building great gates Not: “Never have experience with cats, robots, or gates. But if you give me enough time…” No. Job during an interview is to translate your experience into proof that can make them confident you can solve their problems on day one If you can’t do this, then you need to go get that proof and learn how to sell yourself by practicing (Banki Brunch) and continuing to interview From chat: When your toilet is overflowing, you don’t want an aspiring plumber Leon: Never have to lie, but your job is to figure out how to mold your experience to sell yourself on the job. You have to be your biggest advocate, as no one else is going to do this in your interview, or at least not as capably. No one knows you and your background as well as you do. \[3:04 PM PT\] “I am learning Js with 100devs however my area is mostly Python jobs. How to approach this? Learn am Js and pm Python or do Js and Py next to avoid mixing syntax” Do not trying learning both at the same time. VERY easy to mix this up in interviews Backend and Fullstack JavaScript make it very easy to add Python on top. Best to add mastery to one and see it all the way through, and then add the accessories for the local market after MayanWolfe has a great playlist on learning Python Similar to Leon’s rule about finishing one Learning Journey before starting another

\[3:06 PM PT\] “How do i get over the feeling of imposter syndrome, always hearing about a bad job market and even people with years of experience struggling to find a job” Impostor Syndrome and Job market are two different things Impostor Syndrome is very specific. Probably just experiencing Impostor thoughts Feelings of inadequacy, etc. Syndrome is persistent over time Address Imposter Thoughts by developing proof that you’re capable of doing what you want to do Polished 100Hours project, great portfolio, history of freelancing Proof that you are who you say you are, regardless of what anyone else thinks Second: When you are focused on a faraway goal, your day-to-day starts to have negative effects on you if you’re not achieving anything that gets you closer to the goal. Lofty career goals are hard on people because they don’t feel like they’re making daily progress Normal SWE process is 5 years (undergrad CS, internships, etc.) Goal is typically five years out, and 100Devers often get frustrated a month in Have to keep the perspective in mind. 100Devs is 30 weeks. You’re making +massive+ progress compared to people who take five years. Nontraditional pathway. Need to realize that you have to focus on the day-to-day to avoid burnout Focus on daily tasks. Did I do my Codewars, Anki, Lecture, Hitlisting etc. today? That’s in your control, and you can accomplish this each day, and the imposter feelings will dissipate because you’re making progress every day Bad Job Market? Normal Look at what the actual data says in terms of unemployment. 4% Electricians, the hot blue collar job right now, is 7% unemployment. That’s almost double. Don’t get distracted by the doomloops. Social media algorithms serve you what will keep you hooked. This is often scary stuff. Don’t let the noise scare you. Focus on the facts Leon has said in the past that this is the best hiring market he has seen in years for 100Devs and Resilient Coders (RC) graduates Chat endorsement for Anki to help people learn. Someone said it has made them a memorization machine. Leon agrees

\[3:11 PM PT\] “what are your thoughts on framing your freelance work as an agency/company? stating you run a web development agency” One person agency counts as an agency. No rules on this. One person dev shop is still a dev shop. Bringing designers in can become an agency, but one person can also be an agency Leon likes framing work as an agency. Better business, better for resume, etc. Leon has a one person agency for a long time, and he worked with other contractors who were often doing the same. Still an agency

\[3:12 PM PT\] “If someone recently graduated with a cs degree were would you recommend them to start 100devs, feel like i relied too much on ai during my degree” Lots of folks who have come out of CS programs and most CS programs have a single web development class if they’re lucky For a long time, there were none, and many CS graduates don’t have the fundamentals down to get a job Don’t feel like you can skip content just because you have a degree. Need to build fundamentals just like everyone else, so be sure to do the entire program, start to finish

\[3:14 PM PT\] “coffee chat turned awesome connect stating he’ll help me secure a role with anyone in their network (VPs/founders). How do I choose btw them? All big companies” Pick the ones that match your abilities or that have a role that you think might be an easier onramp, and start there

\[3:15 PM PT\] “Should I learn Typescript before jobhunt or stick to Js. Was told Typescript is more efficient and used by many companies. Please share what you think” Look at local market and see what they are using. Probably not TypeScript Good to know TypeScript these days, but Leon is skeptical it’s dominating the market right now

\[3:16 PM PT\] “Should I restart 100devs after forgetting information during a long break, going from Class41 back to Class26?” Yeah. If you feel like you don’t have mastery over a topic, there is no shame or mistake in going back and rebuilding that mastery. You’re investing in an entire career. No problem setting that strong foundation. That’s part of the beauty of doing 100Devs on your own pace. Lots of Super Reviews in the class list that can help bring you up to speed, too

\[3:17 PM PT\] “When a job has x years experience requirements how do you go about that, feel like every role i see needs atleast 1-2 years experience.” Remember: Job postings are a want list, not a must list. Only you engaging in the process will reveal what is a must and what is a want Leon ignores this, and just pursues the opportunities. Demonstrate that you have the experience that they want Everyone’s “years” are different. One person’s year may be someone else’s two years All about having the skills necessary to solve the specific problems they have, and potentially better than someone else with more years of experience

\[3:18 PM PT\] “How can I manage my fleeting motivation during my 100-hour project and the trough of sorrows when I doubt my ability to succeed?” Pick a 100Hours project that you actual want to do it. You should geek out to do it every day. First thing: Pick a project that you’re excited to work on Fleeting motivation is another issue. Have systems that help you do what you want to do. Timeblocked days and environments that let you be productive whether or not you want to do something Journalling, meditating, good self care area also very important Try to figure out why your motivation is fleeting Are you not getting enough help? Are you doing work you don’t enjoy? Try to identify the root issues and address them systematically Don’t go into your days by accident. Just develop systems that allow you to systematically make the progress you want to be making, regardless of how you feel Remember to take breaks, too!

\[3:20 PM PT\] “How much time do we owe new jobs? Does it matter if we negotiated super hard? Like 6 months a year? 2?” No one owns you. They’re giving you money for labor. If someone else gives you more money for that labor, you should go with them. Company will lay you off in an instant if they can’t afford you anymore, so you need to always look out for you. Leon likes to keep loyalty from people he works with, so if he’s the middle of a big project, he cares more about being there for his team and not abandoning them than pursuing more money. Once the project is done, though, he’ll probably bounce Companies like seeing 1-2 years at an organization on a resume, but this is not good enough to keep you in a worse opportunity

\[3:22 PM PT\] “I recently added an achievements section to my resume. Does including a high school senior superlative (most reliable) come across with that junior smell?” Yes. Probably want to take that off. Kind of funny to mention as a tangent during an interview, but people typically don’t put high school stuff on professional resume

“How do I gain more group working experience-I only had a hackathon experience with other devs. Got ask a lot during interview” Good options: DannyThompson does Commit Your Code Cohorts Open Source Projects Lots of 100Devs Community Projects Pick something that you use every day that’s an open source project, and find ways to contribute to it

“Any possibility of a Huddle devoted to the Hirata Method?” There was interest in the chat on this, so Leon thinks he can do this

\[3:25 PM PT\] “can you please do one huddle with intentional gitgub merge conflict so we can learn how to merge and fix conflicts and what all this magical options do pls” Leon likes this, too. Good idea

“What system should we follow for our 100 hours project? Any specific requirements or system design components to consider?” Binary Upload Boom is what most people follow Base for the 100Hours project, and that’s usually enough to get us a good project Anything else should come up during the project as we identify things that we want to add

“How can I go from 100 hours project completed to software engineer at NVIDIA?” Work hard, learn more, and make connections Lots of 100Devers go right to FAANG companies Like going from high school baseball to playing MLB Yankee baseball. Same answer. Just keep putting the work in to get you where you want to be

“Next Cohort” Soon (Trademarked. This is what Leon always says <3)

Alec asking live how to craft story while doing on-site cable work for an ISP LinkedIn is outdated and story is not crafted Does he need to present himself as a cable/field technician, or can he portray it as a more engineer-oriented way Leon: Depends where. Use the titles that you have, because it is something that can be verified When you’re talking to others, you can say you work in tech, and you’re a software engineering currently focused on the more physical/hardware side Leon is an educator now, but still refers to himself as a software engineer Software Engineer who is currently working in education. No rules about how to talk about yourself publicly, just remember that titles can be verified by potential employers, so don’t be fuzzy about this Alec isn’t sure how to navigate the difference between his personal growth and his work Leon: Growth usually don’t come from work. 100Devers are doing this outside their daily jobs. Craft narrative/story about what we’re doing outside of 9-5. Use potentially irrelevant job experience to add additional skills to the SWE talents and capacity we’re developing

Yasmin: Negotiating Title (live) USD$40K capped salary If she tells them she wants a better title, it may concern them that she wants to leave Leon: Tricky when you’re going through a third party. Yasmin is contracting through a third party or placement provider Is it something that’s worthwhile with you for the long haul? Inherent risk when going through a third party, but they’re also interested in getting the money from having placed you Company wants you, and you’re ready to work? They’re probably not going to throw this away just on something like title. If they would throw it away, this is probably a bad opportunity and you saved yourself from it by advocating for yourself and seeing that they don’t care about you Best way is just have a conversation: “Super excited about the role, passionate about joining. I just have a few questions…” Always emphasize how excited you are and how much you want to make it work If they show reticence to help support you, this shows that you didn’t want to work with them anyway Our job is to convince them that if they help us, we’re thrilled to help them, too These are just routine questions we’re asking to try to make this opportunity as successful as possible for us so that we can thrive in it and do our best Not just “I want a title change NOW, OR ELSE!”. You’re just working together to solve a problem as part of a team who wants to succeed together
