---
tags:
  - the-hunt
  - resume
  - salary
  - technical
author: Michael Govaerts
date: 2026-11-14
---

100Devs - Friday 11/14/25 Huddle (Huntober 2025) - 2:30 PM - 3:30 PM PT

\[Final Huddle of Huntober 2025. Huddles will resume the normal Tu/Fri 2:30 PM - 3:30 PM schedule after this Huddle.\]

(Notes taken by Michael Govaerts, who was multi-tasking, so there may be interruptions. Timestamps are given periodically to make it easier to follow the Huddle chat on Discord.)

(Like all Huddles, the Huddle took place on the 100Devs Discord stage, and was led by Leon Noel.)

  

100Devs Platform to be released next week.

Subscribe to the Newsletter to get the most recent updates, although please pay attention to the Discord as well:

https://leonnoel.com/newsletter

  

Leon is answering questions via a Slido, released to the Discord just before the Huddle. Also, Leon lets people come up on stage and ask questions live, which he asks them to make sure are job-search related. (This is standard Huddle format.)

  

Leon is planning to send out a longer form post summarizing what we covered in Huntober 2025. (This is likely to come out next week, either via the Newsletter or on Discord, or both.)

  

The purpose of our 100Devs Hit List is to play for the roles that aren't posted. Networking our way in, therefore, allows us to target the 70-80% of roles that don't get posted. Current job listings (or at least job listings from the past year) just help us see which companies are hiring and have the funding to extend opportunities to people.

  

Can always apply for the current open positions, but realize we're not just aiming for those. Still try to network your way into these open positions, too. Don't just click apply.

  

Please post in the celebrations channel on Discord to let the 100Devs community know what's going on, too. Your successes will help motivate others in the community.

  

Be careful with scam job openings. Leon's seeing what may be data farming with "opportunities" that are asking for recorded interview videos. Leon personally wouldn't do this unless he had determined it was a legitimate organization with someone willing to talk with him first. If it's just some random listing asking for a recorded video, he's very disinterested. Search the internet about a given company to see if other people have feedback about them or this process, too.

  

Remember, pursuing opportunities is a marathon. Putting the effort to get through 100Devs, so we have to put a similar amount of effort into networked-applications. That's why Leon recommends doing the job search seriously only +after+ finishing 100Devs. Otherwise, it's hard to give the necessary effort to both.

  

Don't put all the effort into 100Devs just to fail to put the effort into networking your way into an opportunity. Yesterday, Leon said he has +never seen+ a case where someone used the 100Devs Networked-In Strategy and made 60 Networked-In applications without getting an offer. Often it takes far less, but it has never taken more than 60. Definitely worth the effort.

  

Realize that the effort you're putting into the "network your way in" is what's going to potentially get you to that six-figure opportunity. How much work is that six-figure opportunity worth for you, especially since you're almost to the finish line at that point?

  

You can't control if someone ghosts you, invites you to an interview, how the interview goes, or if you get an offer. However, you can put the work into networking your way into those opportunities to make it much more likely to get you those opportunities.

  

\[2:46 PM PT\]

Avoid burnout by focusing on the things that are in your control. (Networking your way in. Daily (or at least very routine) HitListing, Banki, and technical interviewing practice). Don't focus on the interviews, their outcomes, or the offers. You're just doing what's in your control, and the offer(s) will come automatically. (If you're constantly bombing interviews because you're missing an important technology, especially for your local market, that's a good indicator to go get some experience in that technology so you avoid that skills gap in the future, however.) Still, realize that we don't optimize for outliers. Thus, if you have one bad interview, that may just be one bad interview. Trust the process, and focus on the long track record of success that Leon's recommended method has had (over at least ten years now.)

  

\[2:49 PM\]

If you have an issue with the Discord community, especially about someone not being kind, please let the mods know via a ModMail. However, please make sure you're putting the effort in to be kind and inclusive as well.

  

(Quoted questions are taken from the Slido, which Leon is answering live.)

"my projects don't ever seem "professional" enough to share with recruiters or showcasing them in general. feels like i get caught up in making something perfect"

\- Leon says this question was answered in the podcast today. So, if you want a deep dive on this (20 minutes) check out the next podcast episode

\- Professional enough and getting caught up on something perfect are two different pieces

\- If someone sees your site and would be comfortable entering their credit card information into the site? That's a good enough site in terms of professionalism.

\- If you're trying to figure out what you've done in 100Devs that you can showcase to recruiters, there are levels to it.

\-- When you're first starting out, your projects are not going to be as good as when you're a year into it.

\--- As you get better projects, your portfolio is going to get better

\- Start with websites that help you get clients, then have full-stack applications that help you get jobs

\- So many ways that you can have a good design that looks good out of the box. 100Devs are big fans of templates, UI libraries, that helps things look good enough, and you don't need to nerd out on the specifics unless it's something you want to grow in

\-- Learn what you need to learn, and move on to the next thing (This should help with the perfectionism thing.)

  

\[2:53 PM PT\]

"On a contract that isn't likely to convert to FTE. I have a recruiter call next week. If asked why I'm looking, is "I'm looking for a FT opportunity" ok?"

\- This is the best thing to ever tell a recruiter. "Hey, I'm currently employed as an engineer as a contractor, and I'm looking for a more stable, long-term, full-time role"

\-- Not that you're unhappy with a role, or missing skills. This is recruiter catnip. Great reason to be able to give, as contracts end, so this is a very common thing

  

\[2:54 PM PT\]

"If we are getting traction for senior/ intermediate level roles, should we go for that or more entry level roles for the mentorship and less demanding role ?"

\- Go for the role that pays you the most. Some entry-level roles are more demanding and less supportive than more senior roles. Regardless of experience level, you still have to do the same thing for the first 90 days anyway to establish yourself well. Therefore, if you're doing well at higher-level roles, don't level down. What experience means at different companies is also wildly different, so don't limit yourself with firm experience definitions. Go for the highest-paying opportunities you can. Let them limit you if they want to. Don't limit yourself.

  

"Whats the difference between Software Engineer & Web Developer positions? Do Software Engineers focus more on desktop apps than web apps? Which role to target?"

\- One role pays more. That's it. One role doesn't understand your skill set and hopes you'll take less money, and the other pays more. A software engineer can work on anything web dev-related. People like to make up stuff about what a software engineer is. (Tools, theory, etc.) However, in the US, there's no protected term for software engineer, so it doesn't matter. Some countries, including Canada, are more limiting for what terms you can use without degrees or certifications, but as long as you're not misrepresenting yourself based on these requirements, the terminology doesn't matter. If you're doing 100Devs, you're a software engineer. (Like Realtor (trademarked term) vs. real estate agent. Just avoid the trademarked term if you don't qualify.)

  

\[2:59 PM PT\]

"Haven't updated my LinkedIn yet to reflect a layoff from only SWE job, but recruiters message me. (How/When) do I (ever) discuss it w/o giving up opportunities?"

\- No reason to update it if it's working for you. Update it when/if you feel comfortable and have time. No rule says it has to be updated, though.

\- Don't lie or fudge your resume if you get asked about stuff, but taking time to update stuff is totally fine. (No worries if it's 6 months later and you're now making the update)

  

\[3 PM PT\]

"Hey Leon, did you post the list of DSA problems that cover most interview questions? Thank you so much for everything you do."

\- This should happen next week.

  

\[3 PM - 3:14 PM Discord break. Michael stepped away briefly and switched to mobile, where he wasn't taking notes.\]

(Topics covered)

\- Do I need live-hosted site?

\-- Can be helpful, especially when actively applying, but there were ideas in the chat for how to get around this, especially if you're considering paying for it.

\- Should I do sales?

\-- Don't dump 100Devs because it's hard mid-way through for sales. Software engineering is likely a better career path. Sales can chew you up and spit you out. That's fine, just make sure you come back to 100Devs and software engineering if that happens :p. Leon is a fan of taking pathways to the end and then, and only then, making an informed decision about how to proceed. Quitting before the finish can cause you to make a less-informed decision that may not be the best for you.

\- How about product management?

\-- That's fine. But realize that you should optimize your search and resume for that role. Don't be half-in product management and half-in software engineering. Go full on either and focus on that

  

\[3:14 PM PT\]

"Interview Sunday: HTML/CSS, JS, Python one task. Job mentions ERP and I've never worked with it Should I study ERP basics or just focus on main topics and prep"

\- Ask them what you should prepare. Google the Earth to see if someone has posted a similar task. Just know enough to be dangerous in the interview, regardless of what it is you need to learn

\- What is up with Sunday interviews? Third person Leon has seen recently with a Sunday interview. He would not be a fan of this.

\-- Hallman (DevRel at Microsoft) just did a talk about how we should not be perpetually available for our employer

  

\[3:20 PM PT\]

\- 100Devs Alum (Rai Bread) talks about success (randomly. Leon didn't plan this). Program works!

\-- Offer with a nonprofit. Leon says still negotiate. "Nonprofits have MONEEEEEY!!!!"

\- Alum just more than tripled their salary. Almost four. Everything else from this point is gravy, says Leon

\- 2 things with nonprofits:

\-- Some nonprofits have lots of money. Some do, some don't. Grassroots orgs are likely leaner. Established nonprofits can have 30mil/yr budget with great staff that support the mission, but also have lots of funding

\-- Every nonprofit files a 990 each year with the IRS, or makes other public reports. Reviewing these can help determine what their budgets are and what the salary ranges are for people who work there

\--- Leon recommends this to help find the right ballpark for pay. Leon typically recommends aiming for the top of the range

\- Always be grateful for opportunities and good interviews, and demonstrate enthusiasm for the role. When written offer letter comes in later, "So excited to join, I have a few questions, can we talk by phone?"

\- Phone: Very excited for opportunity. Is there any room for the base salary? \[Just wait to see what they say.\]

\-- \[This org already increased the offer from a previous offer.\]

\-- If they say no salary wiggle room, then we can negotiate for other things. PTO, relocation, signing bonus, title (this is +crucial+ for other roles. Leon says not to change your titles unless it's a legitimate change, because recruiters can notice and it may give them pause. (They will likely look up your title and your dates of work to verify employment, and will notice any title changes.) Negotiate for better titles whenever you can, either with the original offer or whenever you have a performance review.)

\- Danny Thompson from chat: "I think if Rai said the pay is also at the top end of the previous salary, this is a good sign they are respecting Rai in this process not going low"

\-- Leon says keep the energy up, and agrees. This seems like a great offer. Rai says they also did DSD with Danny, and it was a great experience.

\- Leon says this is a +great+ way to end Huntober, but still wants to help people with the couple of minutes he has left.

  

\[3:26 PM PT\]

\- 100Dever (ichtragebrille \[Amanda\]) comes up for salary range discussions, more senior role, with given range of 150-180K/yr

\-- "What would a 155 engineer look like vs. a 180 engineer?"

\--- "None of our seniors are in the 150 range, everyone is in the 180 range. If you got hired, you'll be at 180."

\- 100Dever: Just by asking a question, she may have just gotten herself a 30K/yr boost. Don't be afraid to simply ask. ("More evidence than the 100Devs process +works+!" - Michael G.)

  

Two docs from Danny Thompson at the end:

https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/959571473188659280/1439034856435748894

"Leon can I share two Google docs? I think it could help folks. It's a list of questions I have been asked recently and a list of questions I have asked"

Questions you Ask: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1wEx41EiaefS4r6Xf9BBBtu9yOJrGPgTi7I7uqqSrLxM/edit?usp=drivesdk

Questions:

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XjkrUclMvGopb9jGVpQeP95jqqtcWnAAmUFroY3AnR0/edit?usp=drivesdk
