---
tags:
  - the-hunt
  - networking
  - technical
  - resume
author: Michael Govaerts
date: 2026-01-23
---

100Devs Huddle Notes
Skip to content Page list Copy link to this page Fri 1/23/26 [Rushed notes, and I’m still behind on some projects, but hopefully I can spellcheck this at some point.] (Notes by Michael Govaerts, 100Devs Superfan: https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelgovaerts ⁠ ) 100Devs: https://100devs.org/about/ ⁠ Part of the Tu/Fri recurring 2:30 PM - 3:30 PM PT Huddles, hosted on the 100Devs Discord by 100Devs Founder, Leon Noel   • ​ Sessions are focusing on helping people with “The Hunt” (for paid opportunities) (Timestamps to help follow the chat messages from Discord) [Leon answers questions primarily from a Slido, where people can upvote the questions they want answered. Leon usually posts the Slido in the 100Devs Discord (#follow-along-materials channel) about 30 minutes before the Huddle begins. Alternatively, Huddle attendees can put their Discord hands up and ask live, as long as it’s about the job hunt.] These notes were taken on Notepad++ during the Huddle. As always, I hope it helps someone and that everyone reading this is having a wonderful day. Thanks, as always, for all the good that you do, especially by taking excellent care of yourself, too <3 Discord Link to Join the community: ​ https://discord.gg/100devs ⁠ … which is necessary to access any Discord links in the community I might have below. Just please make sure to be on your best behavior, and review the server rules channel, as I think 100Devs is a very special place to be <3) Here’s a link to the 100Devs Discord server thread with notes from previous Huddles, too: ​ https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/1410358067450740746/1464407740003778560 ⁠ ⁠ 100Devs Huddle - Fri 1/23/26 - 2:30 PM PT - 3:30 PM PT [Huddle Started at 2:32 PM PT, Leon was Hosting]
All docs
Pages
Huddle Notes by Author and Date
Tuesday 3.3.2026
Friday 28.2.2026
Fri 2/27/26
Tues 2/24/26
Fri 2/20/26
Tuesday 17.2.2026 - DIRTY 30
Tues 2/17/26
Fri 2/13/26
Tues 2/10/26
Fri 2/6/26
Tues 2/3/26
Friday 30.1.2026
Fri 1/30/26
Tuesday 28.1.2026
Tues 1/27/26
Fri 1/23/26
Tues 1/20/26
Fri 1/16/26
Tues 1/6/26
Tues 12/16/26
Fri 12/9/25 Memory Dump
Friday 5.12.2025
Fri 12/5/25
Fri 11/21/26
Fri 11/14/26
Fri 11/7/26
10/21/2025
10/20/2025
10/17/2025
10/16/2025
10/16/25
9/19/2025
9/12/2025
7/18/2024
07/12/2024 How to Network Deep Dive with Jason E. Torres
06/29/2024
06/21/2024
06/18/2024
06/12/2024
06/07/2024
06/05/2024
05/21/2024
5/18/2024
5/14/2024
5/11/2024
[Rushed notes, and I’m still behind on some projects, but hopefully I can spellcheck this at some point.]
(Notes by Michael Govaerts, 100Devs Superfan:
100Devs:
Part of the Tu/Fri recurring 2:30 PM - 3:30 PM PT Huddles, hosted on the 100Devs Discord by 100Devs Founder, Leon Noel
Sessions are focusing on helping people with “The Hunt” (for paid opportunities)
(Timestamps to help follow the chat messages from Discord)
[Leon answers questions primarily from a Slido, where people can upvote the questions they want answered. Leon usually posts the Slido in the 100Devs Discord (#follow-along-materials channel) about 30 minutes before the Huddle begins. Alternatively, Huddle attendees can put their Discord hands up and ask live, as long as it’s about the job hunt.]
These notes were taken on Notepad++ during the Huddle.
As always, I hope it helps someone and that everyone reading this is having a wonderful day. Thanks, as always, for all the good that you do, especially by taking excellent care of yourself, too <3
Discord Link to Join the community:
​
… which is necessary to access any Discord links in the community I might have below. Just please make sure to be on your best behavior, and review the server rules channel, as I think 100Devs is a very special place to be <3)
Here’s a link to the 100Devs Discord server thread with notes from previous Huddles, too:
​
100Devs Huddle - Fri 1/23/26 - 2:30 PM PT - 3:30 PM PT
[Huddle Started at 2:32 PM PT, Leon was Hosting]
Amanda just took the job at O’Reilly! (please see those successes in the #follow-along-materials Huddle announcement):
​
Good healthcare to @danvgar after succeeding as a software engineer. Yet another benefit to taking the program seriously
@brazilianCoder : Had to be 100% remote, but they kept at the grind and pulled it off
“Client that wants a Wordpress site. Is this resume worthy?”
Yup. Job as a Freelancer is to solve a client’s problems. Doesn’t matter how you solve it. It’s all different tools to help solve problems. Different tools are needed for different jobs, so just focus on what you did to help the client
– Playing the game optimally? Applying for a backend Java role, and the only experience in Wordpress? That would be odd to a recruiter. Not a lesser experience, but we have to craft a story that makes sense when someone is only spending six seconds looking at our resume. Highlight something about the Wordpress project that is as relevant as possible to your pursuit (Not PHP if you’re looking at a Java-related role, for example)
[Going to the Slido. 2:38 PM PT]
Old laptop doesn’t matter for 100Devs. Just need access to a web browser, and you should be fine. Leon used a chromebook for the first 2-3 years on his software engineering career. Most things are in the cloud, but it is good to have the option to develop locally on your machine
– RAM and SSDs in Laptops are very expensive right now. Usual recommendations are to get an old Thinkpad (X220, T210+). However, stuff inside them is getting expensive, so they are getting hard to find
— Older model stuff with the RAM soldered on is probably what we’re looking for
[From Michael: Organizations like Human-I-T help connect people with affordable tech stuff.
“Graduated recently in computer science, struggling to find a job at the moment based in new zealand. Found a 100 devs not sure were to get started”
Need a large project you can talk about, great resume and LinkedIn, and fantastic narrative. Once you have all that, then you move into HitListing, which is how we reach out to people to form connections and get referrals. At least 4 classes on the 100Devs playlist on getting jobs. Look at those, and go through the process, then come back to 100Devs Discord and ask more tailored questions based on what’s happening. Need to get that Baseline, and work on things like Banki, and then you just can start putting the work in to connect with the opportunities
(100Devs Class Playlist:
​
[2:41 PM PT]
Mac Minis are also a really good option right now. Fairly expensive, but great if you have the extra money. Decommissioned Chromebooks and Optimus desktops when big corporations have to rotate (every 2-3 years), so try to look for those. Used laptop should be gettable for like $200
Best Buy Open Box can be great for good deals
Library will often rent tech to use for like a week at a time, so always check local resources, too
Leon uses Linux on his Chromebooks as a dual or singular boot, and that gives him more options than the default ChromeOS, which is very limited
Pixelbook with Linux is great
[2:44 PM PT]
“Is there a time frame that you can tell when you will be adding people to the group on LinkedIn? And how important do you think LinkedIn is for gaining work?”
Once a month. Need a photo and a title to get added
“How can I find the motivation to practice LeetCode until I can solve medium-level problems consistently? How long does it usually take to reach that level?”
Super important, as people often look at this first to find out about us. Have a presence that makes sense and has a good story. Danny Thompson (100Devs community hero) has a bunch of content on optimizing our LinkedIn
[2:46 PM PT]
“How can I find the motivation to practice LeetCode until I can solve medium-level problems consistently? How long does it usually take to reach that level?”
Depends on why. Someone in celebrations got a job with no technical interview, and that’s common with half the people who get jobs at 100Devs.
– Going for a certain caliber of company? Need to be at that level for FAANG-level. Commit to a system that can get you there. NeetCode has great videos and explanations in a structured way. Aim for a week on each set to reinforce specific problems. NeetCode 150 or whatever gets you a great foundation, and then you need to put in the practice. 3 months is usually what it takes to get up to speed if you’re already a software engineer looking to interview. 6 months if this is your first time through these types of problem. Your own speed may vary
Motivation is an entirely other story. Build systems that allow you to get the things you want in life. Structure your environment so that even on your worst day, you can still get the things you need to do done to get you where you want to be in the future
[2:48 PM PT]
Leon has not yet sent a letter in 2026 yet. Doesn’t send them out unless he has something new to say. Doesn’t want to spam people. Respond to one of Leon’s e-mails to allow your e-mail server to recognize Leon’s e-mails at not simply promotional
Stick to JavaScript when teaching, is Leon’s advice. Get language to work off of
FastAI is best for working on AI fundamentals, says Leon
“Whats the best way to get coffee chats and how do you make the most out of them”
Get a referral from a friend. “Bob, we had a wonderful chat last week. Anyone else I should talk to?” Snowball method. Best way
– 2nd best way, go meet people in person or ask people online. Be very broad in the beginning while still learning
Post-100Devs completion, be very surgical and HitList seriously, as you’re going for a job
If you need a guide on how to Coffee Chat, community hero Madeleine has one for us
​
[Direct link:
​
“Whats the best way to build your linkedin, like how often should you be posting and what should you be posting”
LinkedIn cares about use. Popping LinkedIn will not lead to job. Don’t hyperfocus on followers for followers sake. It’s what we do with the audience that matters
– Time on platform is what matters. Before you post, scroll for 15-20 minutes. This is part of their algorithm, for some reason. Warm up your account, then post
– Care about replies to other people. Replies are a great day to get LinkedIn going (great for Networking, too)
Post your wins. Anything that you have learned, and may be a step ahead of what anyone else is doing.
– If you put work into learning something, you should share it. At the very least, to get the word out about the cool resources you used. (Michael: Like 100Devs!)
Don’t skip lessons. Do all of the thing you’re practicing. (Michael thinks this is a question from the chat)
[2:55 PM PT]
“How to divide your time in the hunt? Banki/ hunt and what else beside that do you recommend doing? I have got 3/4 hours of focus I can put in per day”
On the Hunt, messaging people on your HitList is the biggest bang for buck.
0.5 hours prospecting for HitList people
2.5 hours messaging HitList
1 hour of Banki and Leetcode-style questions
Lots of hours and messages. Need to time manage and stay consistent. Start worrying after you send 1000 messages using the 100Devs method and aren’t finding success. Many people send 10 messages and give up due to getting discouraged. Trust the system, and put the work in to succeed with it.
– Most people who go hard get to about 1000. Easy to find 600 companies on Hiring Cafe who are locally hiring
(HiringCafe:
Talked about this last Huddle in detail. 300 good fits, 300 less-good
– Better messages to Good fits, more generic for less-good. Find three people at each company, and rotate between good and less-good, prioritizing the good ones first (300 to good, 300 to less-good, 300 to a different person at good, repeat.)
“I haven’t done any networking, and I’m almost in the hunt, can I just start with the hit listing?”
Yup. Just start. While learning, you should be networking so that when you go on the Hunt you have 100+ people you can reach out to and get the ball rolling, because when you’re learning, you don’t need anything from anyone, and you’re just a curious, passionate learner looking for cool, friendly people to hang out with.
– Once you’re on the hunt, you more obviously want something and people can get suspicious because it seems more transactional
Go to Meetups, talk to people, and build that network of folks you can go back to and let them know you’re looking for opportunities now
Do whatever you need to where you are, but be sure you’re targetted on the hunt.
Always easier to do it now. Just start
[2:59 PM PT]
“Were in the discord is the best place to get feedback on cv, linkedin, github, etc”
Specific help channels on the Discord
#career-help channel for this stuff
Leon asks 100Dev community to take some time to help as much as possible in the help channels and help keep our community flourishing
“Have you noticed a decrease in the number of people interested in learning how to code in the last year?”
Last year maybe, but the beginning of this year has been pretty wild
Leon’s e-mails is flooded, but lots of people are realizing that AI is not the magical thing that takes everyone’s job. Realize they let AI scare them out of being a software engineer two years ago, and so now they’re trying to catch up. Veil of Haterade and YouTube Doom has dropped, and Leon has now been getting tons of interest.
– 2 years ago, there wasn’t this much interest, likely due to AI
So many people have also been sending Leon thank yous based on successes, and he loves this. Kids have things they could never give them before, which is proof that people are still succeeding
– “My kids have food” is fantastic. Leon loves hearing this. That’s why we’re here at 100Devs
“How to get a job with no projects and no experience on real companies? Is the market really that saturated or am I doing it wrong? CV review pls Leon, love ya!” - Diego
Company thing has always been his gray area. He doesn’t think “real” projects/experience matter that much, but he tells people to Freelance, so that they can show they have real experience and can show they had someone paying them. 100 Hours project is enough and counts as real experience, as does open source, and a portfolio you’ve developed at 100Devs. Don’t need paid experience to succeed, but it doesn’t hurt. Plus, it’s money :p
Best market in the last 3 months that he has seen in a very long time. More interviews, more offers. Definitely not saturated. Just need to play the game
From chat “95% is figuring out what clients’ need”, and only 5% coding for software dev
– AI can’t do this, so we have nothing to worry about as software devs, at least not yet :p
Can also ask in Huddles to get stuff reviewed. Just make sure you have a shareable Google Doc
“When looking for a job do you hit apply and reach out or do you just reach out”
Area-dependent. Some areas have jobs that close the same day they are posted. Leon plays a longer strategy game. Looks for companies that have been hiring, and build rapport with people at those companies. Leon is not looking for an open role. He’s just building connections with companies that are hiring. Only 30% of jobs actually ever get posted. Missing out on 70% of the opportunities with companies that are actually hiring, but aren’t posting publicly
Closing fast? Click apply, then reach out is a good strategy. Make sure you’re immediately reaching out to a human, though. Better long term success is by going person first (implicit referrals go a long way, and are gained by asking people for the best person to connect with at a company to get noticed for a role.)
“how to convert hit list coffee chats into job referrals, having trouble doing that?”
“Hey, it was really great chatting with you last week. XYZ Corp (where you work, or where you have a strong connection with) looks like they’re hiring. Do you know who I can talk to?”
– “Sure. Let me put you in connection with Bob, who would be the best person to talk to.”
— Implicit referral
– “Sure! We actually have a referral program at XYZ, and I work there, so let me get you into that pipeline”
— Direct referral
Leon didn’t like how Mr. Robot protrayed people with Bipolar disorder. Took too much away from it for him. Liked the first season until all that weird hallucination stuff started.
[3:09 PM PT]
“How exactly do the Cohorts and Houses work? Will there be a new Cohort in February, or are new students expected to catch up with the last Cohort?”
Catch-up-crew channel. New thread each month to connect people who are joining the program asynchronously, which is how 100Devs happens now
Just start as soon as you can, though. No plans for another synchronous cohort, but Leon does hope to have one.
“How do you know what companies are hiring when they don’t post the jobs they’re hiring?”
Last three months is a good sign. 3-6 months is great, too. Any companies that might be a good fit, go on his HitList
During Jobuary, he shared how he looks for companies who are getting funding in his areas. Now that they have money, they’re probably going to start hiring. Look 3-6 months out, who’s raising money, and target companies you think are cool. That gives you a good mix of companies to target, and always focus local first, because it’s easier to form connections with people and get jobs locally.
Funding info:
​
(WatchList)
​
(DevLeads)
(WatchList and DevLeads, the latter of which has a built-in scraper)
Networking is KEY! That’s how you see the jobs that never get posted. Public posting is the +last+ thing that companies do to find people to hire.
“Any suggestions to getting ADHD under control when it is preventing the completion of tasks and making it difficult to focus?”
Good sleep, good hydration, regular schedule, evidence-based medical treatment (including medication, in Leon’s opinion)
– Self-care allows Leon to manage most of his worst ADHD symptoms, and medication takes the last edge off. Self-care is key, too
Leon uses Valerian root (in tea), magnesium, and potassium, but he uses supplements less now and just focused on good self-care routines. Great sleep schedule helps. Just need to get past the first two weeks where you adjust to it.
Adopt identities that help make things easier. “I am a person who is healthy, goes to sleep on time, and takes my studying seriously”. This helps you find motivation to do the right things by default, and build the systems to help get you there
For sleep: Keep your phone outside the bedroom helps Leon. Go get a normal alarm clock, for like $5, and avoid the phone temptation
Leon had 109 alarms, and QR codes around his house that he had to go scan to turn off the alarms. Someone cross-stitched him QR codes that looked pretty for him to hang around the house. Lived it so that he could keep his schedule. All of this just made his sleep hygiene horrible. One small alarm clock that ideally is not illuminated unless he presses a button? Phenomenal. One chance to wake up, and if you miss your commitment, your brain doesn’t like it, and you’re less likely to do this because of all the negative repercussions of the choices that you’ve made
– Now all Leon does is a single alarm clock, and that’s all he needs. Top 5 biggest changes in his life. Risk seems high, but that risk helps you wake up when you need to wake up.
[3:20 PM PT]
“How long should you spend tailoring your cv and cover letter for a job or should most of the heavy lifting come from the reaching out part”
Most is the reaching out part. Have a couple good resumes that fall into different niches based on what you’re applying for
– Fullstack Javascript Resume
– Python resume if your local market has lots of Python
Hitlisting and reaching out is the most important thing. Interviews are what are key to help you determine where your areas of improvement are. Having those resume templates for the local market means that you need to only make little tweaks to pursue those other opportunities
Leon noticed that fancy alarms just made him more manic, and his online search says he’s not the only one
“Not related to the hunt but could you please recommend me a tech book I could read? Trying to inmerse myself more into the field and a good book can help thanks” - Bob the builder
Leon read “The Phoenix Project” for the second time. Great origin story for DevOps. Crushed it on two plane rides
“What technical Q&A to prep for Devops apprenticeship, what I should know and what resources to use to learn, is there even such thing like portfolio for Devops?”
Not his zebra, not his zoo. No idea how to do this
Look what the apprenticeship is asking for, and tailor your approach to that. Need to check other resources, though, as Leon does not know this field
“I’m going to a huge tech conference on my own in the summer. I know it’s still a while but is there any way I could prepare in advance? Already freaking out 😄”
Nothing you need to prepare. Maybe find some people who are going and connect with them, but just show up and aim to meet some people. Need to take a break and cry? No big deal. Just go to meet people, make sure you sign up for things you’re interested in in advance, and just show up without any big expectations. Try to make the most of it :)
“should we list on github/CV all software we are familiar with or only the one we know well. I put everything and was told its a lie and listed stack= know well”
No international community for the standardization of resume. THERE ARE NO REAL RULES
– No rule you need to know something super well to list it. Don’t lie, but if you’ve built something with a technology, you should be able to put it on your resume.
No council that determined what the minimum expertise threshold is to list a skill
If you’ve done something meaningful, you can list it.
Sam: “That’s the interviewers and reviewers job to evaluate.” Don’t limit yourself in advance, because that limits the information they can use
“Is Python the most common language in Vancouver, Canada? Should I learn it based on my Indeed search of different languages?”
If the local market says this is the dominant language, then be sure to add it to your skill set. Don’t stop learning the path you’re on, though. Finish your learning path (like 100Devs, FreeCodeCamp, Odin Project, etc.) and then add your accessory skills, like the local popular language
Leon likes HiringCafe far more than Indeed
“What does it mean to build in public and how to do it, how does it benefit me?”
Build in public just means showing people what you’re building. Some people get customers, recruiter interest, and interest in the open source stuff you’re doing. Also can get encouragement from your peers who are also doing it. Still need to HitList and Network, though :p
“how to get that smell off while you are hoping for a job but trying to network to just be cool and “not need anything” because networks are good to build!”
Be interested in the other person, and share the cool stuff that you’re working on. That’s it
“Life keeps getting in the way of the dev studies and homework. Any advice for keeping going in spite of (sometimes constant) roadblocks? (edited)”
No idea about your life and situation, but as someone who has gone through a bunch of hard stuff in the last couple months, he just adapts as necessary and makes it work. Need to be flexible and build systems that on your worst day you still want to get done done. If it’s not working, that you need to work on a better system to help you succeed in the ways that you want to. Maybe get up a little earlier? Stay up a little late? Don’t discount small amounts of time, as that will add up over a longer period. 30 minutes/day will put you so far ahead of not putting that time in. Then keep finding more time, maybe by rearranging things or declining opportunities that are not related to your goals. Ask for support. Illnesses happen, and you may need a break, which is fine. It’s a marathon, even if you need time to recharge. Just keep at it, and keep working to get the results that you want. (And don’t be afraid to ask for help, too, especially if you can tell people you’ve been putting the work in <3)
“What type of interviews should I expect for mid-level roles? System design, Leetcode? just want to know how to prepare for them.”
Every company is different. Company dependent, not role dependent. Research company, see what interview process is like, and ask ahead of time for how you should prepare. Good to practice these topics, however, because they do come up in mid-level roles. But the best thing to do is research and ask. Goal is not to be surprised by anything, because you’ve done the research in advance
100Devs has been dealing with lots of spam lately, so please remember that:
“Using this community to point people to other communities is against the ❗rules  (this includes Discords, Slacks, other online spaces)” -dvkr (100Devs Discord Mod)
​
“How should I go about using linkedin when I work in a client-facing role and my managers actively check it to ensure I’m on the company brand?”
There are settings to become more private, but it’s kind of tough. Less active posting and more messaging might help, but LinkedIn may not be the best situation for you. Getting your manager on board with your engineering journey is very helpful
– Tell them that you would like to improve your technical expertise to help in current role, and then your manager won’t feel odd to see you posting about getting more technically skilled
LinkedIn doesn’t like secondary accounts, so probably don’t do that. Leon has seen people get banned.
“At a contract job through a staffing co. Found another contract job that turns FT at end of 4 mos. Do both? Don’t go forward w/2nd? Advice 🙏🏼”
Depends on what contract says. Leon always values full-time jobs over everything else. Can potentially double-up, but full-time is always better
