---
tags:
  - the-hunt
  - technical
  - resume
  - salary
author: Michael Govaerts
date: 2026-01-20
---

\[Shout outs to @an.jomi for sharing the 100Devs ChatGPT story crafting tool, and to @leahtcodes and our other 100Devs community members for being so helpful in the chat during these sessions. Please don’t just rely on these notes to get Huddle recaps, Everybody. The chat is always gold, too, especially since there are always 100Devs community heroes looking to help support our community and Leon during the Huddles. Please be sure to be one of them whenever you can, too, both during the Huddles and outside of them. 100Devs is the community that we make it to be. Let’s do Leon proud and help him to make it wonderful <3 \]

\[Rushed notes, and I’m behind on some projects, but hopefully I can spellcheck this at some point.\] \[20260120 - 4:26 PM PT Edit: Alright, I did a first pass spellcheck and edit, but if something is still unclear, please let me know.\]

(Notes by Michael Govaerts, 100Devs Superfan:

[https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelgovaerts](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelgovaerts)

)

100Devs:

[https://100devs.org/about/](https://100devs.org/about/)

Part of the Tu/Fri recurring 2:30 PM - 3:30 PM PT Huddles, hosted on the 100Devs Discord by 100Devs Founder, Leon Noel

Sessions are focusing on helping people with “The Hunt” (for paid opportunities) (Timestamps to help follow the chat messages from Discord) \[Leon answers questions primarily from a Slido, where people can upvote the questions they want answered. Leon usually posts the Slido in the 100Devs Discord (#follow-along-materials channel) about 30 minutes before the Huddle begins. Alternatively, Huddle attendees can put their Discord hands up and ask live, as long as it’s about the job hunt.\]

These notes were taken on Notepad++ during the Huddle. As always, I hope it helps someone and that everyone reading this is having a wonderful day. Thanks, as always, for all the good that you do, especially by taking excellent care of yourself, too <3

100Devs Huddle - Tues 1/20/26 - 2:30 PM PT - 3:30 PM PT

\[2:32 PM PT\] Huddle Started (Leon hosting, as usual.)

“LEON, I GOT DA JOB AT O’REILLYYY, now in the salary negotiation phase but know I nailed that 2nd behavioral b/c of your CAR method & Anki studying!! Thank you!!” - Amanda Leon: That’s how we start off, folks! That’s how we do it!

If you want to talk about the negotiation piece, that’s our specialty. We can do it live on stage, or you can send us a message.

Most importantly, if you get the discount codes for the job, you can just let Leon know <3 (“It’s the book place, ya’ll.” That’s a code Leon wants ;p He sounds like he’s joking, for reference <3 )

100Devs methods work. We just have to put the work in to internalize the 100Devs methods and wisdom

“What do I talk to people who I coffee chat with? I’ve read Madeleine’s guide but natural convos are not my skill.” - Richard Whittington Leon recently incorporated some things that helped him. Podcast: “What does it take to be charismatic?”

Comes down to asking one more question than you would normally ask.

When you get into an elevator, what do you do?

Normal person: Stare into the void – Say just a little more than usual: “Hi.”

Just work to up your default by one step.

Leon says hello and smiles to everyone, so, for him, he’ll now ask how they’re doing as the next step for improved charisma. – You may not get anything back, but sometimes you will, and with practice, it will become easier to talk to people, and you’ll become more charismatic – Leon has gotten great feedback from this. Can do this anywhere. Maybe in line at the store.

Sometimes the conversation might end after you exchange the initial pleasantries, but it doesn’t have to. Add that extra sentence. Cashier at the register: “Oh, you switched from plastic to paper. How has that been going?”

Michael: "Research shows even introverts like small talk, even if they think they won’t, so please put this stuff into practice people <3 " – People tend to treat us the way we treat them, so be friendly and trusting, and they’ll be much more likely to do the same to us <3

Leon thinks this adds up over time, and then you’ll be in a great place to feel much more confident during a coffee chat, where you can put these skills into practice in a way that can directly help you professionally

Coffee Chats can just be connections and getting to know people. It’s nice if it’s about tech, but it doesn’t have to be. Look to ask follow-up questions on topics. Those strong connections are what are going to – From Leah in the chat: Best coffee chats involved talking about “Hello Kitty” or random things \[

[https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/959571473188659280/1463301809996300371](https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/959571473188659280/1463301809996300371)

\]

The key is practicing being good at open-ended conversations, and you can practice this everywhere in your life

First 10-20 Coffee Chats may not be the best, but we’re learning and growing, so each Coffee Chat will hopefully be a little better than the next, just like anything else you attempt that you’ve never done before. We just have to keep making the attempts and look to improve at each subsequent attempt. \[2:41 PM PT\]

Another big key is to follow up, and Leon likes warning people that he’ll be following up: “This was a great conversation. I’m planning to follow up in a month and check in.” Then, you follow up in a month. Most people don’t follow up, so if you’re following up, you’re ahead of the game

Leon Recommends Madeleine’s guide: ​

[https://abrupt-acoustic-c3f.notion.site/How-to-Coffee-Chat-12d4b7b6398f8075baf4f7a4e550bc31](https://abrupt-acoustic-c3f.notion.site/How-to-Coffee-Chat-12d4b7b6398f8075baf4f7a4e550bc31)

– Madeleine says in the chat she’s coming up with a 2.0 version.

Leah says the best way to go about Coffee Chats is to just aim to make friends.

“I see 100devers who started later and finished before me with many tools on their belt, Im still doing 100hrs project, I feel behind how to build confidence ?”

Comparison is the thief of joy. Just compare yourself to yourself. If you’re a little better day by day, you’re doing great. Everyone starts off at different places, with different backgrounds and skill sets, and with different obligations in life. It’s never going to be a fair comparison to compare two different people. Comparing your past self with your current self, and keeping your future self in mind, is the best way to judge how you’re doing and if you’re moving in the direction you want to go. \[2:44 PM PT\]

The difference between a successful SWE and someone who didn’t succeed at SWEngineering is that one person didn’t give up on the way there. As long as you don’t give up, you’ll get there eventually. Just don’t give up – If you’re doing a 100-Hour project, you’re already ahead of the game. Funny that people get that far and still think they’re struggling. You’re already so far ahead of thousands who did one class and gave up. Tens of thousands of people said they wanted to get where you are, but they gave up.

Cohort 2: First class was like 7K people. Second class was 5K. Last class of the cohort was like 2-3K. Big attrition, and we have no idea what people had going on in their lives. Hopefully, they’ll come back <3, or maybe they were just taking the cohort a little more slowly. (4 years since Cohort 2, for reference: ​

[https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/959571473188659280/1463303441945202740](https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/959571473188659280/1463303441945202740)

… Leon noticed people were pushing for Cohort 3 in the chat, which he is still planning to do :p )

“I feel like I’m taking too long to build projects because I keep looking for best practices. Please help? 😒”

Leon thinks learning best practices is great. Take that time so that every project is better, unless your goal is to get a viable project so you can apply to a job. If so, just get the viable project done, and you can polish it later. No such thing as too long if you’re meeting the goals that you have for yourself. – Lots of people focus too much on building projects, but that’s not sufficient to get you a job. Don’t use project-building as an excuse not to job hunt. Finding best practices with personal projects is one of the best things to use projects for. Just don’t use project work as an excuse to hide from the “harder” job search stuff, especially the stuff that involves talking to other people.

“What types of projects should I include in my portfolio to get started, being relatively new to web development?” - Londa

Best projects are ones that explain why you’re showing up.

Previously a restaurant server? Build a POS system that solves one of the significant issues that you had as a server. Medication tracker, if that was an issue when you’re a nurse. These projects can also help explain your transition to software development, and can build up to a 100-hour project that is a much bigger thing. That helps your resume make sense

Projects that you find fun are also great.

There’s no magic project that’s going to get you a job, though.

“What platform can you recommend for full stack deployment + maybe domain please, ideally free of charge for portfolio projects as well as potential freelancing”

Railway and Render are the big ones right now, depending on what you’re building. Vercel can work, too.

Leon likes

[Fly.io](http://Fly.io)

as well.

Appwrite and Vercel is what Leon is using right now. 100Devs community may have some free credits floating around on the Discord.

Railway, Render,

[Fly.io](http://Fly.io)

, maybe Vercel, and potentially something else. All have trade-offs, though. There’s no Heroku anymore, unfortunately. “Completely free, no weird stuff.” doesn’t exist anymore

Once you’re in application season, save up $5 so you can have no cold starts with applications. Cold starts can make it harder for a recruiter to see something because they may not stick around for a Railway instance to boot up. $5 to get through the application season seems worth it, even if Leon doesn’t like telling people to spend money.

Fly is good, but it’s not easy to get a free account for everyone. (Can’t get it on a VPN or in certain parts of the country, for instance.) \[2:52 PM PT\] – Spam detection with Fly might be tough. Github Pages and Netlify are good for front-end, too

“I applied for a remote role that might not be eligible for residency in my state.(CA) Can you explain again if you can set up an address out of state?”

Don’t try to get around residency requirements, in most cases. Typically, if people know they’re going to move to Florida, for example, they can open up a UPS-store address (address looks like a normal address, not a PO Box), and that helps give them a local address that can look more serious to companies. Companies typically see PO Boxes and know that they’re potentially less legitimate. \[2:54 PM PT\]

Leon’s not a lawyer, so be careful with residency requirements. The address thing can help with a transition to a new local market, though, especially if you haven’t made the move yet, but would be very interested in making the move if you could find a job there.

“After you get a coffee chat from a hitlist message, when would you ask for an explicit/implicit referral? Do you wait for the company to post job publicly first”

Yeah. Next time you see a job that pops up, reach out to your connection and ask that connection who the best person would be for you to talk to about this role? That’s what 100Devs means by an implicit referral.

The longer you can obviously have space between the meeting and the ask, the better. If you’re in turbo mode, you don’t have time for that.

“Can you explain what it means not to sign exclusivity again?”

Certain recruiters will ask you to sign an exclusivity agreement with them, which means that only jobs that you can get are the ones that they send to you.

#1 Advice from Leon: Never sign exclusivity with a specific recruiter. Lots of shady recruiters do this to lock you into them. Any good recruiter will not do this. Any job that you get while under an exclusivity agreement, even if you get the job without the recruiter’s involvement at all, will get something like a 20-30% reduction in first-year salary based on the exclusivity agreement’s cut with the recruiter. From chat: “Nothing to lose when asking for a referral. If you don’t ask, it’s a no.”

People getting afraid of asking for a referral have main character syndrome. No one cares that much. Worst thing if you ask? They bring it up negatively with their partner at dinner as a conversation piece exactly one time, and that’s the last time they ever think about you. (Michael: and, if they reacted profoundly negatively to you, especially for no reason, you probably want to focus on more supportive people anyway :p Otherwise, maybe you just had a bad day, and you can “Wow” them the next time you might interact with them. Just think how impressive it’s going to be for you to hit a home run in an interview if they vaguely remember you falling on your face in the last interview you might have had with them months ago.)

Don’t limit yourself in this way, when a potentially 6-figure opportunity might be on the other end of it. That’s $3 million over a 30-year career. That’s a really good thing that could happen, which is not uncommon in SWE. If they say no, there is Nothing to lose, especially when we compare the potential risks to the potential benefits. Why would you be worried about asking for a referral? Just ask the question! – Many companies have referral incentives, so if you’re a successful hire, your referrer will make money! So, just ask. It is very unlikely that anyone is going to hold you asking against you, and definitely not for long.

“Why shouldn’t you use the word ‘connect.’ Like: “happy to connect” or “Let’s connect.” Is it weird to use the word ‘connect?’” - bob on Slido

“Connect” is just what spammers use. Word that folks use when they don’t know you. Seems like a bias against it. – Feels bot-like

Leon wants to connect with people, but in the context of a “let’s connect”, it’s often a soft ask… Leon’s not sure how to explain it

“Leon, I have no idea who you are, but I would love to connect.” “Why? If I have no idea who you are, why would I want to connect and make people in my network think you’re something worth connecting with?” – Seems like someone is trying to up their LinkedIn numbers

Authentic asks to connect are great, but that’s what you should be doing and asking for. Mention something in a profile, talk about something you know about them that you like

Example: Someone showed Leon how to get a discount on Legos to get the new Pokémon set. That’s now Leon’s new best friend :p Saving Leon money and providing immediate value? Instant connection with Leon. Knew Leon’s special interest. Helped him in a way that cost them Nothing. GREAT strategy

100Devs doesn’t gatekeep, especially in education, but Leon says Pokémon is the exception. Anything that could cost Leon money with Pokémon? Kindness has limits. He needs to keep those discounts :p (If this is someone’s first Huddle, Leon is a +big+ Pokémon fan.)

“How to deal with rejection sensitivity dysphoria (RSD)?” - bob

Fear of rejection? Exposure practice.

Leon isn’t a therapist, but at least one month out of the year, Leon will ask for a discount on every single thing for his exposure practice. This annual month has been the biggest unlock for him to get over the fear of rejection.

On the Hunt, you’ll get lots of rejection. Coffee Chats, Interviews, lots of places to get rejection. It’s just part of the process. Need to slog through the rejection, and it’s often the most overwhelming part of the process because you’ve sunk tons of time and effort into this process, and now you’re having a hard time getting the thing you’ve been going for. This, and the very beginning, is the time that 100Devs loses the most people.

Discount request on everything? Great practice. Any time Leon buys something during his rejection exposure month, he asks someone for a discount. Starbucks free stuff happens all the time. At Target, a cashier used their own phone to price-match with other stores and then gave Leon the discounts. Nothing bad happens when Leon asks for discounts. Sometimes they will chuckle or say no, and that’s very little downside. Upside is he gets +FREE STUFF+ or discounts. Upside is asymmetrically larger. Keep this in mind whenever you’re afraid of rejection. Rejection is Nothing, but the potential upside when you do succeed is incredible. Get comfortable with the rejections so that you can keep moving towards the successes. “Success is going from failure to failure with no loss of enthusiasm.” - Anonymous – From chat: “You’ll be surprised what retail workers will do for you if you’re just nice to them.” \[3:08 PM PT\]

“saw that a friend works at a company i’m interviewing for; they’re nontechnical though. best segue to ask if they know anyone I can speak to? thanks 💜”

Just ask. Some people might be uncomfortable and ghost you. Others might not know who to refer you to, and tell you that. No worries. Just ask. You might even help them determine that their company has a referral bonus program they can benefit from. Just ask

“Kindness costs you Nothing”, so remember this as well when you’re in a position to help other people

Real friends? You’ll give them everything they need to succeed at their interview with your company, as you know they’ll do the same for you. That’s real friendship in Leon’s book. Hopefully, that’s how your friendships work, too.

\[3:10 PM PT\] “Well I gotta head out I girl bossed too close to the sun and my 100 hours project is now an app w a grant and now I got an office building all thanks to an old connection back when I was learning HTML 3 years ago thanks to 100Devs! So please keep track of ur connections you never know!” - MarciaC95 in the chat: ​

[https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/959571473188659280/1463309277300002917](https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/959571473188659280/1463309277300002917)

“Got a job offer and negotiating salary bc its lower than current. Thinking of focusing on tech skill and networking for year but unsure if job in edu can help”

Ask them to help you. “Please help me say yes. I really want to be here, and I see the long-term growth potential, but I have these issues. Less money than currently making…” – You’ll be amazed at how they might be able to help you, but they can’t unless you share with them that you need help.

Leon wouldn’t disclose the exact current salary, unless he knew the people were looking out for Leon specifically, but he would just say the salary was lower than his current one, and that’s a major problem for him.

“what is your suggestion for someone who graduated in CS but didnt know what they were doing? currently working through 100Dev on week 7 atm.”

Many 100Devs alums went through a CS program but needed 100Devs skills to get a job. Great interview skills, great projects. Focus on how to get a job and freelancing portions. This is an excellent place for you. Make sure you can translate the skills in your brain into tangible things that can demonstrate those skills. The degree is not enough to show you can hit the ground running on day one and solve someone’s problems.

“Im documenting my learning journey on youtube @christencodes. How can I leverage my channel when looking for a job? Do employers care about github or youtube?”

Leah would be the one to answer this, and she’s answering it in the chat.

Make sure 100Devs project … (Michael missed this. He thinks it could either have been “Make this part of your 100 Hours project”, or “Use your 100 Hours Project as content”

Leah answered in the chat later, at 3:18 PM PT.

Here it is: "Youtube, twitter, and twitch can definitely help when applying for jobs! I would say to post short clips or updates from what you worked on during your streams or videos to post on twitter. Also possibly writing blog posts about these same things as well. All of these are great ways to build in public and help showcase your skills to employers. Through streaming and creating content, I’ve gotten multiple job offers and referrals. As well as skipping some parts of an interview process since they already knew from my content I’d be a good fit

Doing these things also helps open you up for more roles such as devrel, developer advocate, tech evangelist, etc. But even for dev roles it makes you more competitive because it shows you can talk through technical problems etc" ​

[https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/959571473188659280/1463311385571102902](https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/959571473188659280/1463311385571102902)

“How do I begin crafting my story? I have a ton of experience doing all sorts of different things, and the adhd was strong with me. how do i connect the pieces?”

There’s a 100 Devs ChatGPT tool for this that was recently shared in chat for this purpose. Start there. \[Michael found it: "

[https://chatgpt.com/g/g-68e95630e9b481918051aa54d9deec8a-bob-your-story-crafting-coach-from-100devs](https://chatgpt.com/g/g-68e95630e9b481918051aa54d9deec8a-bob-your-story-crafting-coach-from-100devs)

" ​

[https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/959571473188659280/1463310345878900948](https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/959571473188659280/1463310345878900948)

\] \[3:15 PM PT\]

“will have chat with founder at startup for QA/Jr. SWE role. Aim to make them laugh twice and remember me due to I failed first round 3 time. Any other tips?”

If you failed the first round three times, don’t worry about making them laugh; figure out why you failed and fix that piece. Understand market, space, and understand +deeply+ about the company. That should go over well with the founder. However, the key is to figure out why you’ve been failing. That’s more important.

“What are generally likable traits that a cto or founder would like vs fellow engineer?”

Product experience. Ability to deliver on your own. Technical expertise that the team will be missing. Nothing too wild. They likely just want good SWEs.

“Can we have Jobuary or Fabjobary plese? Would be greatful for more of this patterns what it is/ why used/ how things works and why technical vocabulary prep”

Freelancing February was mentioned in the chat, which Leon likes, as he’s a big fan of freelancing and how paid clients look much more impressive on a resume than unpaid projects. However, Leon’s family all has the flu, and Leon doesn’t have it yet (but may miss Friday if he gets it). He doesn’t really have the time to commit to every day for a month, which something like a Jobuary would require, and he doesn’t want to commit to starting something he isn’t sure he can finish.

\[3:18 PM\] Leah put her response to the thing before in chat. \[Michael included this in the relevant section above.\]

“what is beter take low salary apprenticeship and have job but low salary for 2 years contract or spend more time learning to apply and survive on entry level”

Leon hates the 2-year contract companies. Pay you half to a third of what you should be making, label it as an apprenticeship, and then you have to pay if you end early. No. That’s garbage. Some people go through them and are happy, but Leon hates these types of agreements and the companies that use them and thinks we should avoid both like the plague.

\[3:20 PM PT\] “How do I get started with content”

Just start. The first version of 100Devs was in a garage, and his audience could hear the AC blowing on him the entire time. Just start, and it snowballs. You figure out what works and what you like, and you improve over time, just like with anything else. The hardest part is always starting. Just start. Don’t wait for the magic to come. Show up consistently, and the magic happens.

\==== Start Sidebar === Michael just heard other people say this exact thing:

"

[https://www.hiddenbrain.org/podcast/you-2-0-how-to-break-out-of-a-rut/](https://www.hiddenbrain.org/podcast/you-2-0-how-to-break-out-of-a-rut/)

"…Shankar Vedantam:

So a motto that recurs in your book, Adam, is action above all. What does that mean?

Adam Alter:

Yeah. It means that… A lot of the book is about the emotional experience of being stuck and then about the mental strategies we can use to move forward. But all of that ultimately is in the service of action. Being stuck is about being physically in a particular place or mentally in a particular place and wanting to be somewhere else. The only way you can change that is not changing how you emotionally appraise the situation, not with mental strategies, but ultimately the thing you have to do more than anything else is to act, is to move in a particular direction. … “”

[https://www.npr.org/2025/12/18/nx-s1-5647765/kumail-nanjiani-standup-night-thoughts-the-big-sick](https://www.npr.org/2025/12/18/nx-s1-5647765/kumail-nanjiani-standup-night-thoughts-the-big-sick)

" … And even now, the biggest, I think, asset I have is working really hard. Like, I prepare a lot. I - when I’m writing, I - and it’s something I’ve taken from Emily as well because I used to think of writing as this sort of thing where, like, you have to wait for God to speak to you. And she’s like, no, you got to go to church every day, and sometimes God shows up and sometimes God doesn’t show up.

MARTIN: Oh, that’s good (laughter).

NANJIANI: Yeah. It’s really, really good. Like…

MARTIN: Yeah.

NANJIANI: And she has a real ritual. She lights a candle every day. She sits down, and she will write from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day. And I’ve learned - I’ve picked that up from her, too, and from my dad. So I think working hard. And I think from my mom, I’ve just - there’s, like, a really appealing softness to her where she’s, like, just a very, very compassionate person. And my dad is compassionate, too. I don’t mean to say that these qualities are mutually exclusive. But I think I’ve learned that from her, is just to be, like - just to be soft with the people around me. Sometimes I’m not soft to myself. But I think - and I also think I don’t want to get too much into specifics because it’s not my story to tell. …"

\==== End Sidebar ===

“How many points of contact should I pursue at each company on my hitlist.”

Current thinking from Leon: Go to Hiring Cafe and find 600 companies that have open positions in your area. This is a common thing for Leon when he’s helping people in a big metro – Half of those will be close to what fits your skill set and experience (Other half may not be good fits. Maybe you’re a JavaScript dev and the other half don’t use JavaScript) – 300 companies: Find someone at that company, and do the normal, find something about them and send a non-generic message. Typically, 10 per hour, 3 hours per day, is a good target for Leon, and he’ll do this until he gets through the entire list.

One person with targeted messaging for the first 300 contacts.

Then, look at the other half of 300 companies that weren’t a good fit, and make that message a little more generic when you find the person to contact, because these weren’t good fits

Then go back and find another person at the 300 good fits, and send a targeted message

Repeat this alternating process three times, and you get three contacts at each company. This alternating process also likely means you’ll be getting responses throughout the process, which you can follow up on. At the very end, you’ll have made 900 contacts, and should hopefully get a paid opportunity out of one of them, and might not have to go through all 900 anyway.

3 messages to three different people at a company is ideal, and the above process is a system. It’s the trough of sorrow, though, so just keep trudging through it. You’ll get there, as long as you keep going. “When you’re going through hell. Keep going.” (Don’t stop and get stuck in Hell :p) For most people, not having a system is what gets them stuck in Hell, because they give up.

“how do i answer the salary question in an early interview and no band is posted and they said they don’t have bands”

“What have you budgeted for the role”

If they don’t tell you, you say you’re looking for the fair market rate for a developer with your skill set and experience. You’ll need to look it up as you learn more about the role.

“Posted salary range is in my range”, but typical 100Devs negotiation is you’re always looking to be the upper edge of a range. Company wants to give you the least they can get away with, and you want to get the most you can get because you’re the one looking out most for you.

Give them a range if they press you: “80k-170K is what I’ve been looking for.”

Most companies will eventually cave and give you a number. Just need to practice negotiation, and 100Devs can help with that.

Leon jokes that 80K is his one-day-a-week-of-work, fully remote price.

Just like everything else, you have to practice negotiating salary and say it out loud. Practice at Banki Brunch, practice with ChatGPT in voice mode. AI Prompt: “Pretend you’re a recruiter that wants to give me the least salary you can, and I want the most. Help me roleplay”. You can do these things. Just need to go out there and practice using all of these tools, and do do that serious practice consistently.

“Any resources you suggest to learn SQL quickly? I know MayanWolfe made a series on YT 😄 Any others?”

Leon recommends starting with MayanWolfe’s content, then actually building something with it

“Should I go for FOUNDING roles as entry level?”

Can’t lose a job you don’t have, but founding-level engineering roles are harder jobs, typically.

“Don’t let your dreams be dreams”, even if these aren’t the jobs Leon would be looking for, especially for a recent 100Devs graduate.

“In your opinion what are the best type of 100Hours projects”

Projects that help explain why you would be a good fit as an SWE with the company

Try to tie past experience with current experience

“what are good projects ideas for python and flask one week. or 2 solo commitment for portfolio to learn skills what are good skills to learn at entry lvl”

YouTube may try to sell you videos about the perfect project, but Leon says it doesn’t exist. A good project does at least one of three things: bridges your experience from your past to your present as a SWE, is in line with the company you’re applying for, or demonstrates your skill. Outside of that, it doesn’t really matter. Just build stuff

Start applying early, and the interviews will help you determine what types of projects you need to build to be more successful in those interviews.

\[3:31 PM PT\] Chat discussing 100Devs Blog, and Leah may be writing for this

“what is beter spend more time to learn Js or apply to get interview practice. Did not started 100h project, failing interview will burn few bridges on the way”

Don’t take that many interviews until you’ve completed the full 100Devs. Everything at 100Devs is designed to help you succeed at the interviews. Big O and 100Hours are key for interview success. Don’t skip stuff. If you finish 100Devs, you’ll maximize your success. Leon always recommends finishing a job-focused course before you start seriously looking for a job. You should be hitlisting, coffee chatting, and networking the entire time, as it’s built into the program itself, but the focus should be finishing 100Devs until you’re done with 100Devs if you want to maximize your success on the job hunt

“Hey Leon, when will we be able to get early access to the jobs platform?”

Leon’s alpha testing this. He’ll be done soon, but he has been working on it. Stay tuned. Leon wants to get it to a point where he’s happy enough with it that other people can start contributing to it. He’s not there yet, though.

“where can we find start-ups and co-founder roles? (asking for a friend)”

Where start-up founders hang out. Y Combinator has a “find a cofounder” service.

Cofounders should really know each other, says Leon, who has founded companies with multiple people. Founders should know each other intimately. It’s worse than getting married, as you’ll be spending more time and money with this person, and much more quickly, than you would with a significant other. Anything that could go wrong in a marriage could likely go wrong with a startup, and would go wrong much more quickly

Good to do experimental foundings, with a 3-month window, just to see if you can work well together and figure out where the pain points are to work on

For the record: Leon says marriage is amazing, and he loves marriage.
