---
tags:
  - the-hunt
  - interview
  - technical
  - networking
author: Michael Govaerts
date: 2026-11-07
---

100Devs Huddle Notes
Skip to content Page list Copy link to this page Fri 11/7/26 (Notes taken from the live Huddle by Michael Govaerts) [Unedited, un-spellchecked notes. Posted as soon as possible after the huddle. Please see screenshots in the 100Devs Huddle Notes thread [under the catchup crew channel] for screenshots related to this session and Huddle Notes from previous Huddles.] [More 100Devs Lectures from Leon about Technical Interviews, DS&A, and Networking Our Way into jobs: https://communitytaught.org/class/all ] 100Devs Huddle: - Fri 11/7/25 at 2:30 PM PT (100Devs approach for Solving Technical Problems, as demonstrated during HuntOber 2025 in the 100Devs Discord) [2:36 PM PT. Michael is multitasking, so he may miss some things. Sorry :( Michael also isn't planning to take exactly what Leon is doing, as he thinks the 100Devs lectures likely have Leon solving problems. He's focusing instead on the tips and tricks Leon emphasizes. (Solving a coding problem together, with Leon sharing his screen) - 100Devs uses the PREP method (Parameters, Returns, Examples, Pseudocode, emphasizing communication at all stages and developing rapport with the interviewer, who will often give us hints.) - First question to ask: "Can I take notes?" (Great way to start building that rapport and get the interviewer to start saying, "Yes", and responding to your questions with real answers.) - Try to avoid writing down your method for problem-solving in the IDE. We don't need to show our interviewer(s) that we're using a specific method for technical interviewing. (So don't write out "PREP" or "UMPIRE" in the IDE.) We want to make it look like we're seasoned veterans with our internalized system - Please remember: If we get someone in an interviewer who does something +very+ different than what we're used to, don't sweat it. Just do your best and keep optimizing for the majority of interviews where the interviewer is hoping to help you, don't optimize for the rare meanies that are out there, who you probably don't want to work with anyway <3 - Ask questions. Clarify if Googling is okay (Example problem we worked: "Count all the occurring characters in a string. If you have a string like aba, then the result should be {'a': 2, 'b': 1}.) -- String problem? Confirm normal characters, that it's always going to be a string or empty. All lowercase ^ This is the "P" of PREP, where we identify the Parameters specifically - Now we do "R" Returns -- Confirm what you should be outputting - "E" - Example(s) -- Write a function that takes your parameters and returns what you confirmed you'll be returning [Questions from yesterday that Michael remembers: If you're going for Full Stack Web Development, JavaScript is probably your best bet for a language to use for technical interviewing. If you're going for Big Tech or something else, Python or C++ may be better. However, JavaScript is the 100Devs default, so there doesn't seem to be any reason not to focus on that language, especially since we're going for Full Stack. Leon cross-trains with multiple languages when he does LeetCode; however, in order to stay nimble.] - Leon took 15 minutes to go through the first three stages of PREP. No big deal. Gives him lots of time to think, allows him to focus on building rapport with the interviewer, and also makes it less likely for the interviewer to try to get Leon to solve something else at the end. Leon often recommends confirming at the beginning of the interview, "Will this be the only problem we're solving today?" Then, if the interviewer says something like "We would have solved more if you were faster," at the end, you can confirm you established in the beginning that we were just going to solve the one, and therefore even if you +could+ have gone faster, you didn't because you established the scope of the interview at the beginning. - When you open things when programming, make sure you close them right away (so, in Javascript, just make an empty for loop that's closed, vs. having to worry about whether or not you still need to close it at the end.) - Confirm if, "on our team," we should leave comments in the code or not. -- Emphasizing "our team" as much as possible in the conversation to message that Leon's a good fit for team culture (and thus, a great person to extend an offer to.) - Likes this problem (from Michael's screenshots in the Huddle Notes thread), because it helps introduce hash maps
All docs
Pages
Huddle Notes by Author and Date
Tuesday 3.3.2026
Friday 28.2.2026
Fri 2/27/26
Tues 2/24/26
Fri 2/20/26
Tuesday 17.2.2026 - DIRTY 30
Tues 2/17/26
Fri 2/13/26
Tues 2/10/26
Fri 2/6/26
Tues 2/3/26
Friday 30.1.2026
Fri 1/30/26
Tuesday 28.1.2026
Tues 1/27/26
Fri 1/23/26
Tues 1/20/26
Fri 1/16/26
Tues 1/6/26
Tues 12/16/26
Fri 12/9/25 Memory Dump
Friday 5.12.2025
Fri 12/5/25
Fri 11/21/26
Fri 11/14/26
Fri 11/7/26
10/21/2025
10/20/2025
10/17/2025
10/16/2025
10/16/25
9/19/2025
9/12/2025
7/18/2024
07/12/2024 How to Network Deep Dive with Jason E. Torres
06/29/2024
06/21/2024
06/18/2024
06/12/2024
06/07/2024
06/05/2024
05/21/2024
5/18/2024
5/14/2024
5/11/2024
(Notes taken from the live Huddle by Michael Govaerts)
[Unedited, un-spellchecked notes. Posted as soon as possible after the huddle. Please see screenshots in the 100Devs Huddle Notes thread [under the catchup crew channel] for screenshots related to this session and Huddle Notes from previous Huddles.]
[More 100Devs Lectures from Leon about Technical Interviews, DS&A, and Networking Our Way into jobs:
100Devs Huddle: - Fri 11/7/25 at 2:30 PM PT
(100Devs approach for Solving Technical Problems, as demonstrated during HuntOber 2025 in the 100Devs Discord)
[2:36 PM PT. Michael is multitasking, so he may miss some things. Sorry :(
Michael also isn't planning to take exactly what Leon is doing, as he thinks the 100Devs lectures likely have Leon solving problems. He's focusing instead on the tips and tricks Leon emphasizes.
(Solving a coding problem together, with Leon sharing his screen)
- 100Devs uses the PREP method (Parameters, Returns, Examples, Pseudocode, emphasizing communication at all stages and developing rapport with the interviewer, who will often give us hints.)
- First question to ask: "Can I take notes?" (Great way to start building that rapport and get the interviewer to start saying, "Yes", and responding to your questions with real answers.)
- Try to avoid writing down your method for problem-solving in the IDE. We don't need to show our interviewer(s) that we're using a specific method for technical interviewing. (So don't write out "PREP" or "UMPIRE" in the IDE.) We want to make it look like we're seasoned veterans with our internalized system
- Please remember: If we get someone in an interviewer who does something +very+ different than what we're used to, don't sweat it. Just do your best and keep optimizing for the majority of interviews where the interviewer is hoping to help you, don't optimize for the rare meanies that are out there, who you probably don't want to work with anyway <3
- Ask questions. Clarify if Googling is okay
(Example problem we worked: "Count all the occurring characters in a string. If you have a string like aba, then the result should be {'a': 2, 'b': 1}.)
-- String problem? Confirm normal characters, that it's always going to be a string or empty. All lowercase
^ This is the "P" of PREP, where we identify the Parameters specifically
- Now we do "R" Returns
-- Confirm what you should be outputting
- "E" - Example(s)
-- Write a function that takes your parameters and returns what you confirmed you'll be returning
[Questions from yesterday that Michael remembers: If you're going for Full Stack Web Development, JavaScript is probably your best bet for a language to use for technical interviewing. If you're going for Big Tech or something else, Python or C++ may be better. However, JavaScript is the 100Devs default, so there doesn't seem to be any reason not to focus on that language, especially since we're going for Full Stack. Leon cross-trains with multiple languages when he does LeetCode; however, in order to stay nimble.]
- Leon took 15 minutes to go through the first three stages of PREP. No big deal. Gives him lots of time to think, allows him to focus on building rapport with the interviewer, and also makes it less likely for the interviewer to try to get Leon to solve something else at the end. Leon often recommends confirming at the beginning of the interview, "Will this be the only problem we're solving today?" Then, if the interviewer says something like "We would have solved more if you were faster," at the end, you can confirm you established in the beginning that we were just going to solve the one, and therefore even if you +could+ have gone faster, you didn't because you established the scope of the interview at the beginning.
- When you open things when programming, make sure you close them right away (so, in Javascript, just make an empty for loop that's closed, vs. having to worry about whether or not you still need to close it at the end.)
- Confirm if, "on our team," we should leave comments in the code or not.
-- Emphasizing "our team" as much as possible in the conversation to message that Leon's a good fit for team culture (and thus, a great person to extend an offer to.)
- Likes this problem (from Michael's screenshots in the Huddle Notes thread), because it helps introduce hash maps
-- Much more optimal solution than a quadratic solution that would have used nested loops, but may be tempting when trying to brute force the solution
- Hash maps are a +very+ elegant way to solve problems like these. Great tool to have in our technical interviewing toolbox
- JavaScript has "Map", which is a fun tool to use that's language-specific, but hash maps are something to know regardless of what language we're in.
--> Presented TwoSum
-- Brute force way to find all pairs that add up to the given sum?
--- Nested for loop
---- Outside loop grabs the first number, inside loop tests it against all other values, finds pair, and then moves on.
- Brute forcing first is often something interviewers like to see. Don't be afraid to do that. Getting a win on the board, even a suboptimal one, is okay
-- If all you have is the brute force solution, best to start with that, and just leave hints that you think there's a better solution out there.
--- Why leave hints? All about communication. Also helps demonstrate mastery in that you can figure out a solution. Also makes it seem like you haven't seen the problem before. Don't want to make it look like you've memorized a problem, because the interviewer is just going to change up the problem to try to trip you up.
- Need to realize that we're playing a game here. Don't want to "tip our hat" too early
- Get the Brute Force on the board for TwoSum. Can name-drop that we think we can do a hash map to go from quadratic to something closer to linear
- Leon says he almost always starts off with the brute force solution, and then optimizes it, unless it's painfully obvious
-- This helps demonstrate his quest for improvement, and gives him more stuff to talk about with the interviewer. (Goal of the interview is to demonstrate that you can code +AND+ you're going to be an excellent team member that strives to continuously improve.)
- Rarely, an interviewer will ask you to just solve the problem as optimally as possible. This is +VERY+ rare. Don't optimize for the outliers. Most like collaboration and working through the problem methodically
(Another of Michael's favorite lines from 100Devs Huddles: "We don't optimize for a$$holes.")
[Michael got interrupted for a couple of minutes]
- Goal to move to a linear solution whenever possible (using TwoSum as an example)
- Many interviewers like you to talk through your code. May have a different phrasing of TwoSum that uses sets.
- Current solution with HashMap (3:18 PM, see screenshot)
- Using Hash Maps is +very+ common in technical interview problems
- Each of these big tools that you can incorporate, you're now much more comfortable in 10% more interviews. As you build them on top of each other, you get increasingly confident
[3:19 PM PT --> Moving to the Slido to answer questions from there]
- Most companies, especially big companies, expect us to brute force first. +REALLY+ like seeing us work through our thought process and improve a solution to be more optimal
Q: "I have an in-person final round interview. What types of questions should I be asking at this point?"
- Leon: Please stay away from questions you would ask +after+ you have an offer. Don't get too comfortable. Generic questions from 100Devs Bank. Ideally, informed, researched questions from the company blog, and potentially related to the most recent company change. "What prompted this recent adoption at the company?"
-- Popular with DannyT: "If this final interview goes phenomenally well, what will the first three months of us working together look like?"
- Don't ask questions that make the interviewer more doubtful. You're not coworkers yet. Don't start asking about the unlimited PTO policy. Ask all that stuff +AFTER+ you get the offer, not before. Get the offer first
- The more researched and informed the questions, the better received they will be
- Whiteboarding process is exactly the same as PREP
-- Leon writes notes with his dominant hand, practices on sheets of paper to know how much space he takes up. Easier to be cheeky by introducing methods he plans to use later
- Also have to be mindful about communicating. Need to turn periodically and present the whiteboard to the interviewer. Don't just stay staring at the whiteboard and never turn to recognize the interviewer
- If you want a specific company, especially one that hires globally, the goal is to network with everyone at the company possible. Global remote roles are a lot more competitive, so we have to go the extra mile.
- After a gap? Try to make the most recent job title "Software Engineer" if that's what you're going for.
- Daily LeetCoding? How to motivate?
-- Money. Leon: "Do you mean to tell me that there's an interview process that if we study for we can know if we did well or not well at the end of, and even if we're with the most racist interviewer that hates my guts, I know I rocked the interview and that only reason I'm not getting selected is some other stuff outside my control?" DS&A stuff is awesome because you can know whether or not you did well, unlike any other types of interviews, where you never really know. Technical questions and coding challenges are much more equitable because you can study for them. The only thing between you and a six-figure offer is how much you prepare for it
-- Make it part of your daily practice
-- At least 30 minutes per day of Anki and 30 minutes a day of technical practice
--- Start with CodeWars early, then build up to Leetcode
- Most folks can replace some leisure time with Leetcode/CodeWars
-- You might even start to have fun with it. (Competitive programming does +not+ make you better at interviewing, but it is fun :p )
- VERY important to negotiate for a better title whenever possible. Much easier than other stuff (money, relocation, etc.)
-- Try to get "software engineer/developer" vs. "web developer"
--- Often much easier for a company to offer than money, but some companies are very rigid about this and don't have the wiggle room
-- Be sure to revisit this at any periodic reviews
- Where/How do you practice interviewing?
-- Mock interviews are the best way to practice, after actually interviewing. (So, don't be afraid to start interviewing! Even if you bomb them. Most companies let you reapply after 3 to 6 months anyway.)
--- Lots of practice options on the 100Devs Discord Server
- Try to know the efficiencies and details behind the technical interviewing methods that you use
- How to time manage?
-- Leon gets up very early. Works 6 AM - 5 PM, then 5 PM - 8 or 9 PM is family time. 9 to 10-11 PM is work again. It may not work for everyone, but it works well for Leon. Leon doesn't play video games as much as he used to or would otherwise want to. Plays Pokémon on his phone if his kid is napping, though. Allows him to free up more time for the more important stuff
--- Has periods in life for dedicated recharge time, because he knows that helps him go hard when it matters. Recharge hard or work hard, and know that one helps you more effectively do the other.
- Upcoming interview? Rebuild a current project with the technologies that this new company uses, or use a tutorial to brush up on this stuff so you can talk about it effectively with the interviewer(s)
[Ended at 3:35 PM PT]
Screenshots from Leon walking us through how to solve a problem using PREP and 100Devs techniques:
PREP-n-100Devs-problem-solving.png
problem-solution.png
twosumproblem.png
twosumsolution-hashmap.png
