---
tags:
  - the-hunt
  - technical
  - networking
  - resume
author: Michael Govaerts
date: 2026-01-30
---

\[Rushed notes, and I’m still behind on some projects, but hopefully I can spellcheck this at some point.\]

(Notes by Michael Govaerts, 100Devs Superfan:

[https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelgovaerts](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelgovaerts)

)

100Devs:

[https://100devs.org/about/](https://100devs.org/about/)

Part of the Tu/Fri recurring 2:30 PM - 3:30 PM PT Huddles, hosted on the 100Devs Discord by 100Devs Founder, Leon Noel

Sessions are focusing on helping people with “The Hunt” (for paid opportunities) (Timestamps to help follow the chat messages from Discord) \[Leon answers questions primarily from a Slido, where people can upvote the questions they want answered. Leon usually posts the Slido in the 100Devs Discord (#follow-along-materials channel) about 30 minutes before the Huddle begins. Alternatively, Huddle attendees can put their Discord hands up and ask live, as long as it’s about the job hunt.\]

These notes were taken on Google Docs during the Huddle.

As always, I hope it helps someone and that everyone reading this is having a wonderful day. Thanks, as always, for all the good that you do, especially by taking excellent care of yourself, too <3

Discord Link to Join the community: ​

[https://discord.gg/100devs](https://discord.gg/100devs)

… which is necessary to access any Discord links in the community I might have below. Just please make sure to be on your best behavior, and review the server rules channel, as I think 100Devs is a very special place to be <3)

Here’s a link to the 100Devs Discord server thread with notes from previous Huddles, too: ​

[https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/1410358067450740746/1464407740003778560](https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/1410358067450740746/1464407740003778560)

100Devs Huddle - Fri 1/30/26 - 2:30 PM PT - 3:30 PM PT

From the Huddle announcement on the Discord:

https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/738891289071714388/1466908559504838697

  

“Hey @everyone your #100Devs Huddle starts in 60 mins (<t:1769812200:t> your local time)!

  

<:anothaone:740581548717506712>\*\*Give Congrats in <#735936014832369687> to \*\*

  

<@426417024638517249> For their new Senior Software Engineering Role!!

"This new role and my first came from recruiters reaching out to me on LinkedIn, and my second one came from someone I met at a virtual tech conference. Having my LinkedIn profile up to date with all of my skills, speaking about myself in a positive way that really shows my value (bangers only!), and networking!!! really make such a difference. I wasn't the strongest at either of those things before 100devs, but I really put in the work to make it happen."

  

<@624016178309890058> On their first paycheck!! as a freelance technical consultant!

"Back in June, I started volunteering for a childhood cancer nonprofit, and what began as a scripting role quickly grew into data engineering and analysis work. By fall, I was asked to join as a freelance technical consultant. And last night, I received my first paycheck!"

  

<@318870135240654848> for finishing their 1000th Codewars kata!

  

\--

  

<a:heartrainbow:687043845636096054> Some links worth your time this weekend:

☕ "How To Coffee Chat" Guide: https://madeleinepbelanger.substack.com/p/how-to-coffee-chat

📺 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=45YTtESYyY8

📻 https://open.spotify.com/episode/3PZQiZ0EMOoo0EgaFcx8ST?si=7dfc12b149db48e3

  

\--

  

Then come ask all your \*\*#THEHUNT\*\* related questions live!!

  

<a:bluedot:1257791102078029994> Join us here at 5:30pm ET: https://discord.com/events/735923219315425401/1466902493391884524

  

<a:bluedot:1257791102078029994> And ask your \*\*#THEHUNT\*\* RELATED questions here: https://app.sli.do/event/eFjGa842bfpu4RsasimCFR

“

\[Huddle Started at 2:31 PM PT, Leon was Hosting\]

Might be the last time we use Slido, as his annual fee is coming up (“hundreds of dollars”). Can vibe-code something that provides the same functionality, so we’re going to try Leon’s Slido clone next week. With any subscription Leon has, especially for personal tools or things that are limited in scope, he’s trying to vibe-code an alternative

Lots of great news in the #celebrations channel that Leon highlighted in the Huddle announcement

“What’s the best place to research companies I would like to work for to add to my hitlist?” “Top companies to work at in my city” with Google can help you find companies with good working conditions “Top tech companies in my area” This is how to find companies that are good goals to shoot for. Use Hitlist Magic and HiringCafe to find companies that are actively hiring or have hired in the past 3 months Aggregate best lists can help find worthwhile companies HuntOber highlighted ways to find companies that just got funding, because that means they’re likely in a good position to hire Use all of this to MayanWolfe in chat mentioned that GlassDoor has “Top” lists, which is based on employee feedback Leon liked this. Add over time, too. If you meet someone cool, add their company to the list, and now you may have an easy referral (implicit or explicit, depending on the strength of your relationship) \[2:37 PM PT\]

“Should I send a thank-you email to everyone on the panel after the interview, or just to the hiring supervisor? What should I say in the email?” YES! Everyone gets a thank you. All you have to say is Thank you. Don’t overthink it. Definitely will have people we interacted more with, and we can spend more time on those e-mails. Anyone we interacted with gets a thank you. Show your appreciation Leon said in the past if someone doesn’t thank him, they don’t get hired. Full stop. Make sure you don’t miss the opportunity to show gratitude Try your best to find people via LinkedIn or Apollo, or ask people at company, and then if you absolutely can’t, at least you did your best Always good to add anecdotes from your interaction Main point of contact should end with a question, just so that they have to respond to you and keep the hiring process rolling “Don’t overthink it” from the chat Leon has an Apple Note about all the things that his ADHD has made difficult. Often a lot of things by the end of the day ChatGPT 5.2 thinking gets this, and Leon asks for easy next step or a quick response Leon doesn’t use the exact response, but it helps kickstart Leon to provide a response of his own His flavor of ADHD responds very well to this LinusTechTips ex-employee talked about how some people feel relief and some people feel accomplishment when finishing task Leon is like this. Anything to help him get the ball-rolling is the same Leon said again: “If you interviewed with me, and you didn’t send thank yous, you’re not getting hired.” Not everyone is like this, but Leon is, so please keep that in mind. \[2:41 PM PT\] “had an initial interview where I had to record myself answering questions. I noticed look like I am reading something even if I am not. How to avoid this?” Don’t overthink this. Try to make eye contact with the camera. No one keeps dead-locked eye contact the entire time. Okay to look away and think. Leon likes to use his hands to show that he’s thinking Only weird if you look to the side and then scan your eyes and make it look like you’re reading Best way to test this is to record yourself doing the thing you’re worried about, and then you can see what it looks like when you do it Most of the time, your concerns aren’t real If they are, just pick a different focal point. Maybe don’t look down when thinking. Look up instead, so it doesn’t look like you’re reading If it’s a real problem, get a teleprompter so you can always be looking dead center while still reading.

From Chat: Repetitive to say thank you? Leon never gets upset with someone thanking him too much. He has also never got a negative reaction to saying thank you

Best thing to do is to record yourself and watch it back. It can be kind of uncomfortable, especially at first, but Leon thinks it’s INCREDIBLY worthwhile

Thank you template from MayanWolfe in the Chat that Leon really liked: ​

[https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/959571473188659280/1466926860616339456](https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/959571473188659280/1466926860616339456)

Lots of interviews are a vote. “Do not Hire” “Hire” or “Strongly Hire” Anything we can do to tip our favor to strong hire is great. Remembering that we’re kind is great at doing this

“Nervous for first interview” - From chat? Don’t worry about it. Do your best, grow from it, and realize we’re just trying to get one offer out of 60 networked-in attempts. Don’t sweat it too much

From the chat, people are saying when they make hiring decisions, thank-yous always help

Japan: Expectation is to say thank you multiple times. If you don’t do this, you’re viewed as ungrateful Chat says they’ve been practicing saying thank you to their friends

Amazon has a different Rubric that Leon likes:

[https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/959571473188659280/1466927479892611235](https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/959571473188659280/1466927479892611235)

“It’s seems to be a theme when recruiters ask if you know a BE specific language (Rust, Go, Python etc). Is only JS/TS not enough anymore?” Full Stack is useful when learning. Great to learn same language for entire stack JS/TS is enough, says Leon Some local areas have different preferences, so you may need to add additional knowledge via a tutorial or something at the end of your course, but make sure you take a course to completion. Don’t chase the hot things and never get the foundation that you need to succeed Recruiters often don’t know that JS can be used in the back-end, so it may just be a lack of familiarity. You might actually have enough to meet the job requirements

“Knowing that AI can recognize resumes written using AI, how else can we tackle ATS? Those 5 min denial letters are something else” Knockout questions are very straightforward. Very illegal to use AI-only to deny applications, says Leon Human has to reject you. However, if you miss a major keyword, like if you don’t have “software engineer” in your resume, they reject you off the bat Use 100Devs ChatGPT tool for narrative crafting, and 100Devs resume template Location, willing to work in office, etc. are common knock-out questions Not “Does this person has three years Python experience”. Knockout questions are not that deep

Every single AI provider leaves signatures in their text that will flag that they were written by AI. Leon and Danny have tested this. Can get ideas from AI, but make sure you rewrite them in your own words Leon uses WhisperFlow for everything. Records Leon’s voice and transcribes it. However, the AI still leaves a signature even though it’s Leon’s words verbatim. AI-reviews will flag the text as 100% AI generated. Blew Leon’s mind Even retyping it is important Special characters and stuff seem to be the signature feature. Very silly. Leon wants to share this because they figured it out

Resume screens don’t ask for 100% to pass. You can fix the important stuff fairly easily using 100Devs advice

\[2:52 PM PT\] “Which option would best improve my chances of getting hired: a work-based project, an independent project, or a research paper?” All good. Doesn’t think any one of these improves chances more than the other Depends on role, however. Research role? Research background will be better General SWE role? Research could be cool, but may not guarantee you can rock the SWE job from the jump Work project might be better, but probably best if it’s full-stack and done independently so that you can say you did everything If all you have is a work project because you don’t have time for independent, you need to sell it Leon thinks independent project is best for most people, which is why he recommends 100Hours project to be done independently Each week while working, always keep a log of all the great things you’ve achieved. That lets you track all your wins Do this regardless of whether or not you’re working This win-log will help you sell yourself better when at performance reviews or interviews/negotiations

\[2:55 PM PT\] “What if I have an NDA? How do I get approval to talk about my thing?” - From chat Get approval. No shortcuts for this. Just ask for the approval and say why you need it. Talking about something at a conference or meetup seems common

“Is the Software Engineer Bootcamp still the best way to get started? The playlist with 55 videos?” Yup. Watch the playlist, join the Discord

“How does one regain their confidence after being let go due to a restructure? (Walmart Global tech, 6 yoe SWE)” If you can, take at least a week to let the past be the past. Decompress. Always have a great Emergency Fund so you can afford this Leon likes two weeks completely off. Jumping right back in can bring in residual stress Mayanwolfe from chat: Not your fault. Nothing to do with you. Leon agrees. You need time to let your brain process this Some people read for a bit. Go into the woods. Just let your body be okay and process what happened Now make a gameplan for what you want. What opportunities do you want to pursue? Make a plan for what to do each day. Treat it like a job Focus on things you can do each day that are +in your control+ Hitlisting 2 hours a day Banki and LeetCoding for 2 hours a day Once the end of the workday hits, then STOP WORKING and enjoy the rest of your day because you working hard. Need to find a balance so this is sustainable Explore hobbies, interests, etc. Make sure you have your work time and your play time Don’t just panic or burn yourself out. You need a structure of balance between productivity and rest Confidence comes from building a body of proof that you can do what you claim you can do, and a structure really helps with this

“I used Hitlist to get a job interview (tysm), but haven’t had time to review Banki. How can I prep for a behavioral interview this Tuesday?” Only 22 questions for a Behavioral Interview. You can do this in a weekend Use the CAR method from 100Devs. Focus on the Banki Need very clear answers that sell yourself well based on proof 100Devs Voice channels are great for this practice Banki Brunch is doing this all the time

\[3:00 PM PT\] “Hey Leon, I have been slacking on anki for a couple of months now, idk how to get back to it, i have a lot of cards to review” Leon physically left the video screen. He’s just kidding, but he wants to emphasize how routine Anki is crucial Good question, though. If you slack, they do build up over time Can just start over Just up your review to 50-100 cards/day minimum, and then go through it Painful at first, but typically only about 30 minutes of time Just try to build habit back of daily review Adjust based on how much time you have Trust the algorithm. Start with a block of time you can commit to. Leon thinks specific time in the day is good. After dinner or before work. People do better if they have a set time of day. Do something that lowers the activation energy just to get started. Commit to 5 minutes to start, and then make the commitment bigger if you get going. Hardest part is usually to start Anki on the Walking Pad is what Leon and many in the chat do Leon also mentioned “Brilliant” on the Walking Pad Walking pad is a flat treadmill that goes underneath his desk \[3:04 PM PT\] “what do you use to record your interviews?” Leon uses Riverside for the Podcast Uses OBS for other recordings Bunch of AI voice recorders that are out there that can work Not every state is one-party consent, so you need two-party consent when recording, especially if you’re planning to release it Typically, Leon just records his sound through OBS

“Completed final round interview last friday with hiring manager, I followed up with recruiter yesterday and still waiting for go/no-go. When should I follow up?” Probably follow up Monday or Tuesday. Normal. Some companies are quick, some take long One 100Devs example (“Bolicle”?) took 6-8 months to invite candidate to move forward

“How much should I really be focusing on DSA for frontend / full stack roles?” Everything you do opens a door. DSA door doesn’t let many opportunities in Hitlisting, Networking, AND DSA opens way more opportunities If you’re applying to FAANG-level only, DSA is necessary More local companies don’t need heavy DSA Most people getting jobs after 100Devs rarely need extensive DSA People in Tech-heavy areas (San Francisco), likely have more need for DSA skills

\[3:07 PM PT\] “Is better to focus/optimize on JS/Python in the Bay when there are many jobs with different languages? Also, I imagine recruiter will be more technically sound?” So many opportunities in the Bay, that you can get away with anything Just need to be smart with your HitListing

“What should the flow of your portfolio site look like as a Software engineer? ie. Hero | professional experience | Projects | About me | Contact” Lots of examples in “How to Get a Job” classes. Don’t overthink it What you listed in the question is a totally fine flow

“With Binary Upload Boom template should I switch out the EJS for something more modern? I have done an 100 hrs project already” EJS is still fine. Modern enough Can totally add on accessory stuff. More React is great. Probably don’t want to pick another templating language. Just something more complex.

“Do you have an email template for reaching out to potential clients to improve their existing and lackluster website?” No template. But this gets discussed a lot in Freelancing-related classes. Leon may cover this more in February Just try it, and then get better over time Cold-contacts don’t often work, because people are getting flooded Focusing on local can help you stand out, especially if you have in-person contact with these businesses Keeping it simple and casual often works best Let them know you’re there to help

\[3:10 PM PT\] “It’s straightforward showing/demonstrating software engineering, but are related certifications worthwhile? Like Agile, Scrum, PRINCE2, etc?” Might be nice to haves if you’re already going to get the job, or unlock a promotion when you’re in the job, but wait until they’re paying for it Certs will not really move the needle in getting you a job

“How to approach connection with a higher-up? They accepted connection request on LinkedIn but it feels intimidating to just start chatting” They’re just people. Just treat them like a human, and it will go fine. Leon refuses to treat “higher ranked” people differently than he treats anyone else. They’re the same as anyone else, even if they’re done some more butt-kissing to get there Just send them a message.

From chat: “How does Leon handle emails?” Many of his e-mails are Yes/No Leon has used Gemini in-line with e-mail, and finds it absurdly helpful “Tell me the last five projects I’ve worked on with this person” Not having AI in the mix is a mistake. Get efficient with it to help you get an edge.

Just keep adding to projects you’ve made to enhance them as you add more time. Great way to make existing projects more impactful as opposed to starting again for scratch

@migelisms asking live in Huddle Video editor who was laid off a while back 4 months without a job Going to network events, selling via 100Hours project LinkedIn says he was in a different, non-SWE sector If he’s going for SWE, Leon thinks he should craft the narrative specifically for the thing he wants Don’t give people the impression that you aren’t what you say you are and are capable of solving problems on Day 1 If you say you’re an SWE with experience, the video editing background can kill the opportunity Can incorporate video editing as part of your SWE journey, which might be a great angle right now Do SWE related to video editing, or specific tools related to it, and that can really help you set yourself apart, especially for something like DevRel \[3:16 PM PT\] @Daniel (gorik\_19) Following up about backend skills and location specificity (he’s in NY) Recruiters are asking for specific languages (Go, Rust, etc.) Thinks NY market might want separate backend How to respond to his? Point out that he works with similar tools… Leon says don’t undersell yourself. If they say “Do you have TypeScript, Python, Go experience?” and you’ve done TypeScript, you say, “Yes, I have experience with those technologies” You need to resist the urge to undersell yourself. You have to present the most optimal version of yourself, because that’s the version that’s going to get hired. No recruiter wants someone who undersells themselves, especially if you have the thing they’re looking for “Yes, I have experience with these technologies, and I’m looking forward to learning more” If someone is saying you need Python, Go, AND TypeScript? Then they’re not sure what they’re talking about, because that’s not a common skill set for an SWE. They’re just trying to cast a wide net to catch as many people as possible. Don’t sweat it TypeScript is huge is NY, and is a dominant language Chat says this is a very transferable skill

From chat: “What to say if you don’t have any experience?” If someone asks for Rust, you can say you have experience with a plethora of backend language (like Rust) and look forward to learning more. If they say “You need Rust specifically”, then you say “Great. I’m familiar with that language, and would be comfortable working with it” (and then you spend a weekend getting proficient on top of your existing full-stack foundation, especially via 100Devs)

Live: “Lesliee Coder” asking about a technical interview Key Leon says is that they’re giving Lesliee what she should expect PREP is key to succeed. If you’re actually using a whiteboard, practice with at least a piece of paper so you can get used to spacing, especially Get comfortable writing, then talking/communicating/collaborating, then write again Record yourself to see how you’re doing and improve Start with something simple like FizzBuzz Try +really+ hard to find what they’re going to ask you. GlassDoor or GitHub Lesliee says it’s a local company, so this research didn’t yield much Leon says with PREP and Practice, she should be fine

\[3:24 PM PT\] Live: “Lexi” Colleague at same contractor for Apple. Hired at new firm in GIS that seems to treat employees better Leon asking for question first so he knows what he should be looking at Lexi wants to figure out how colleague got the outcome Going for GIS-entry position, but recruiter said he was overqualified, so gave him a higher-level GIS Analyst position instead Lexi wants to figure out how to get hire opportunity (Leon summarized) Go into normal interview and demonstrate that you have not only the skill for the opportunity, but the next one higher up. Show proof. Negotiate hard once you get the offer If they think a higher level will get you into the role, then you can ask for this in the negotiation “You gave me an offer at this level, would you be able to give me an offer at this other level that you’ve had before?” Wait until you get the offer. Sometimes you get lucky, and you always negotiate, but always wait until you get the offer. \[3:27 PM PT\] Live: “Matthias (with a top hat)” Don’t see himself in a SWE role. Germany is a different market. Doesn’t think it’s like the US where you just need to demonstrate proficiency Matthias also struggles with social anxiety Idea is now to go for an apprenticeship to work in archives “Specialist for Media and Information Services” is the translation Gives him the opportunity to work with tech Leon says this is the path for many people. They find an available path that works best, and they can get closer to their goal However, if this gets Matthias closer to their goal, it’s great. Some people take more circular path (DevRel or QA) Easier lifts, and then you can get working towards the SWE goal Stability is great, and part of the strategy is great Don’t just settle for something because you think you’re not capable of being an SWE If you decide you don’t want to be an SWE, there’s nothing wrong with trying something else Leon says 100Devs is not a coding bootcamp, it’s a getting a job bootcamp, so he’s always welcome here, especially since he’ll still be working with tech “Just because you don’t want to be a SWE doesn’t mean you don’t belong in 100Devs” Sometimes, it’s the friends you meet along the way <3 Matthias says the 100Devs Discord has helped Matthias address his social anxiety more than anything else Leon thanks Matthias for all the good he has done for our community, too <3, and thanks him for coming up and sharing with us \[3:32 PM PT\] Live: “Daniel Hopkins” Mic Issue. Leon will try again with him on Tuesday

Live: “Alex K (#The Hunt)” Does restaurant experience help? Should he go for management for better professional clout? The time thing is the thing Leon thinks is most important. Management is not worth not being able to study or transition as much. If he’s currently stable and has more time to learn and time to transition in the career he wants, that’s probably best Only Alex knows if extra money and stability in management might be worth it Leon doesn’t think it is going to move the needle in terms of SWE, but it’s not going to hurt Alex likes knowing it’s not going to move the needle.Helps him a lot in his decision
