---
tags:
  - the-hunt
  - resume
  - networking
  - freelance
author: Michael Govaerts
date: 2026-01-16
---

\[Rushed notes, and I’m behind on some projects, but hopefully I can spellcheck this at some point.\]

(Notes by Michael Govaerts, 100Devs Superfan:

[https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelgovaerts](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelgovaerts)

)

100Devs:

[https://100devs.org/about/](https://100devs.org/about/)

Part of the Tu/Fri recurring 2:30 PM - 3:30 PM PT Huddles, hosted on the 100Devs Discord by 100Devs Founder, Leon Noel

Sessions are focusing on helping people with “The Hunt” (for paid opportunities) (Timestamps to help follow the chat messages from Discord) \[Leon answers questions primarily from a Slido, where people can upvote the questions they want answered. Or, they can put their Discord hands up and ask live, as long as it’s about the job hunt.\]

I took notes on mobile (with my thumbs :p ), so this was less polished than normal. I hope it helps someone, though!

100Devs Huddle - Friday 1/16/26 - 3 PM PT - 3:30 PM PT

Amanda onstage asking a question – Salary negotiations after final interview

Email to Amanda that Amanda’s not sure about: “revisit salary expectations. Share range she had in mind, and any flexibility.” Will tell her by Tuesday if she’s hired, after pushing off telling her

Leon doesn’t like going hard on negotiations until an offer is in hand. Stay flexible, get the offer, and then negotiate for more specifics.

top of their range is the bottom of hers, so leon says stay flexible, get the offer and then negotiate from there – try not to spook them. May be other candidates in the mix and they are trying to get the cheapest. Stay vague until you get the offer. Once we have the offer, the power shifts. Don’t do anything that could jeopardize the offer. Once you get the offer you can go harder because they have picked you at that point, and then you can work with them to make the position possible for you +++ Screener on Tuesday. No experience with tech (.Net)

do a tutorial over the weekend and then port a project you have to use that technology stack instead. Build a project related to what they do as well. Try to interview with this tech stack more times, so that you’re not wasting this effort. +++ Hitlist only after you finish a program (like 100Devs)

then adapt to popular technologies appearing often in your hit list, especially when it’s common in the local market +++ Networking events are all about making friends. If you make one friend, it’s a win. Don’t go in with too high expectations about what you’re going to achieve or what to ask. Try to do more listening than talking; ask relevant questions to event, since people are all there for the same thing; read “how to win friends and influence people” if you’re extremely anxious about social interactions (100Devs standard); leon goes for food/drinks first, and then starts talking to the first person he can to get the ball rolling. Hardest part is always getting started. Just go and see what happens +++ (3:17pm pt) 4 days not usually enough to build a polished project. 100 hours project is 100 hours to try to help it get polished

with 4 days, have a single core feature, make it look decent. Leon would stay away from Android and focus on web dev unless it’s very job specific. Projects based on past experiences are good, or related to what companies you’re focusing on are doing ++ Question about interview prep (Michael missed this one, sorry.) ++ Let the market decide what you’re ready for. If you apply to 30-40 senior roles and you’re not getting interviews, maybe you’re not ready for senior. Experience levels are made up, tho, and many 100devs alums go right to senior ++ 3:21pm Success is a numbers thing. Can freelance after 5 weeks, but need to go until you get a client. Don’t just call five people and then give up. Start small and then build. How to Freelance 100Devs class should get us there. Online presence should be locked in professionally, too. No “aspiring”. You want people to be confident that you’re competent. Just keep putting the work in ++ 3:24pm Key use case for AI is to explain a code base and identify low-hanging fruit to help with. Great for interns. Also never eat alone and ask others about what you might want to focus on to make a positive impact

bring lunch or buy your own. Shouldn’t be buying lunch for others ++ 3:25pm “After 2+ years of networking/events & growing LinkedIn to 200+, only landed “free” job (Career advisor recommend to stay for exp.) (Bay area btw.) Thoughts?” 200 LinkedIn contacts is like a week of work. Just need to keep at it However, Hitlisting and Networking, are two different things Here’s how Leon would do it:

Hiring Cafe to start identifying companies that are hiring. Starting local is usually the highest yield –840+ companies hiring in the bay area — 33% are good fit, using familiar tech. Should talk to 3 people at each company. Minimum of 900 contacts

500 other companies should have contact from you to recruiter about your availability and interest in roles

Hitlisting is targeting companies that have recently hired. Not just networking

use apollo to find emails. Customize messages for good fit. Should do about 10 customized per hour. Should see something after 900 contacts. If not, something is off with your online presence or resume, but this process helps you determine what to focus on

Apollo should get most contacts with bay area companies, as they’re likely fairly well-established – 4 different 100devs classes on how to do hitlisting. Start there +++ 3:31pm pt “Chatting w/ connection from non-engineering Microsoft Tues, planning to just get general advice after applying for two roles. Anything specific I should ask them?”

just reach out and ask about how to pursue open roles and make sure you’re doing the right stuff and know who to contact about software dev roles. Nothing really specific. See what happens from the contact
