---
tags:
  - the-hunt
  - networking
  - freelance
  - mindset
author: Michael Govaerts
date: 2026-02-17
---

\[Rushed notes, and I’m still behind on some projects, but hopefully I can spellcheck this at some point.\]

(Notes by Michael Govaerts, 100Devs Superfan:

[https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelgovaerts](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelgovaerts)

)

100Devs:

[https://100devs.org/about/](https://100devs.org/about/)

Part of the Tu/Fri recurring 2:30 PM - 3:30 PM PT Huddles, hosted on the 100Devs Discord by 100Devs Founder, Leon Noel

Sessions are focusing on helping people with “The Hunt” (for paid opportunities) (Timestamps to help follow the chat messages from Discord) \[Leon answers questions primarily from a Slido, where people can upvote the questions they want answered. Leon usually posts the Slido in the 100Devs Discord (#follow-along-materials channel) about 30 minutes before the Huddle begins. Alternatively, Huddle attendees can put their Discord hands up and ask live, as long as it’s about the job hunt.\]

These notes were taken on Google Docs during the Huddle.

As always, I hope it helps someone and that everyone reading this is having a wonderful day. Thanks, as always, for all the good that you do, especially by taking excellent care of yourself, too <3

Discord Link to Join the community: ​

[https://discord.gg/100devs](https://discord.gg/100devs)

… which is necessary to access any Discord links in the community I might have below. Just please make sure to be on your best behavior, and review the server rules channel, as I think 100Devs is a very special place to be <3)

Here’s a link to the 100Devs Discord server thread with notes from previous Huddles, too: ​

[https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/1410358067450740746/1464407740003778560](https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/1410358067450740746/1464407740003778560)

100Devs Huddle - Tues 2/17/26 - 2:30 PM PT - 3:00 PM PT

\[Huddle started at 2:32 PM PT\]

Happy Lunar New Year.

Just a 30 minute Huddle Today because Leon needs to go celebrate Lunar New Year with family. (He said something like having a “Double Dragon” in his family?)

  

It was Matthias’s birthday recently! (Matthias, with the top hat, is a staple of the 100Devs community! <3)

  

“Is it normal to take more than 100 hours to build the 100 hours project? It took me an hour to learn and debug a REST API's connection to the DB, for example”

Yes! 100Hours is probably the minimum

Minimum that you should be spending on this project that is the cornerstone to you getting a job

Some people never stop working on their 100 Hours project

Some people turn their 100Hours projects into businesses

However, keep in mind that this is just one caveat of getting you a job

Don’t sink more hours in the 100Hours project to avoid doing HitListing and Networking. Those other things are going to get you the job

100 Hours project is about struggle. We learn in the struggle, and that learning is what’s going to help us rock the interviews.

  

“Is it realistic to work full-time as a freelance developer instead of a 9–5 job? I feel burnt out in corporate and I'm trying to weigh my options.”

Leon knows people that do this

Couple key things if we want to replace 9-5 pm or escape burnout/stress

Need two evergreen clients and a war chest (need money in case clients don’t come in for an extended period of time)

Leon says get 3 months of funding. If you have family you are supporting, get at least 6 months

Evergreen clients are those who keep coming back routinely to use you and pay for your services

War chest is there to allow you space to work for new clients

Not having new clients is common. We have to prospect for them, so we need to ALWAYS have the war chest so that we have the flexibility and time to focus on finding good clients

Don’t be desperate. That causes us to make bad decisions and end up with bad clients and even more stress and burn out

Lots of 100Devers that freelance specifically (in chat)

C95 (Marcia Cripps) has lots of experience with this

Chat says pizza ovens are awesome, and Leon agrees and is jealous

  

“help negotiating an offer for a role 3h away. They want me to relocate. Do I ask for as much money as possible or just ask to work 1 day a week in the office?”

Worthwhile to come up on stage and talk about this stuff during the Huddle. This is negotiation stuff that 100Devs specializes in

  

“What to do when I get stuck with a topic I don't understand which leads me to not want to work on it and start procrastinating and wasting time?(100 hours proj)”

This is a mindset shift. Leon now gets excited when he gets stuck. He enjoys it. This has helped him be wildly successful. Many good friends of his hate this experience. Freak out when they don’t know something. Leon understands where this is coming from

Need to get to the mindset that we know that getting stuck or feeling stress does not mean imminent danger (this is a common anxiety response)

Once we get over this, now we’re doing puzzles and lego bricks

Leon likes a GIF that shows you can be the kid screaming on the rollercoaster, of the Beyonce that is having the time of their life

This might be a therapy thing, but for many people it’s just a mindset shift

(GIF is in the chat)

Reevaluate anxiety as excitement is common in CBT

Leon has a deep-seated belief that he can figure out anything. Any problem that Leon faces, he knows he could figure it out given enough time and access to the internet. This may not be true, but it’s how he operates

Best way to avoid procrastination? Be bored.

Your only options are doing nothing, or doing the work. If you can’t do anything but what you’re supposed to do, eventually you’re going to want to do it

Remove all distractions. Control your environment to make the thing you want to do the easiest thing to do

Good self-care is also important

Exercise, eating right, sleep

Leon’s only B in his entire school run was AP Calculus (B+)

Leon was crushed because he thought he was going to lose offers to college and stuff

Good at math. He’s really good at memorization. Blessed with good memory. To succeed in school? Memorized, regurgigated, and forgot

Leon enjoys math more now because he has changed his mental model in approaching it

  

“What is the new CV/Resume format? I understood the 'Bob the coder' one might be out of date. Can you or anyone in chat share a good one?”

Two templates. Newer one is more Harvard style

Transitioning from another industry? Two column seems slightly more successful

Worthwhile experience in engineering already? Lots more proof? Single column layout seems to slightly edge out two-column, but not for new developers

Vish just posted both in chat \[2:44 PM PT\]

Micah in chat: Unless you’re doing math-based code (engineering and scientific computing), you really don’t need much math

Especially if focused on web development

Leon: Machine learning is more math heavy, and math knowledge will never hurt more generally. Don’t need math to be a good developer, though

  

“during job interviews, if HR asks about salary at 100devs, how should I explain properly? Could you guide me on the best way to present this experience?”

100Devs is a full-service agency that offers a software engineering training program. We were going through training program. Program was unpaid, but we got paid clients, who were X, Y, and Z

This is how most people answer this

  

“What are your tips to have/get/work on having the mindset of not freaking out and procrastinate when getting stuck? I really want this for me.”

\[2:46 PM PT\]

Rejection therapy works for Leon

Freaking out, procrastinating, etc. is about how they’re being perceived by others

Worried that their family will be disappointed

Therapy for Leon: Once a year, for a month, he always asks for a discount on ANYTHING he buys. Helps him get over initial fear about rejection, since most people laugh. However, some people give him discounts, so he sees that taking risks is GOOD, not bad

Can keep a list of what you’re learning so you can look back and see your progress

A month ago you thought you wouldn’t learn the thing you now know. This new thing is probably similar

Mindset/Identity shift: You are a capable, studious student who does what you want to do. Get social network bought into this. This helps you not want to violate this identity by procrastinating or doing things you don’t want to do

Most people don’t do all these things, and still feel stuck

Just invest the minutes a day to experiment with the above solutions, which work for many people, so go try it and see if it works for you

  

\[2:49 PM PT\]

“I need a 100hrs roadmap. I started without a plan and am lost on what comes next/ what it looks like when its "finished". I cant finish something i cant define”

No roadmap. What do you want to build? See in this world? Break it down into set of features to accomplish this. Everyone is different

It’s done when it’s something that someone would be willing to put their credit card information into and start using

Chat: Leon took suggestion of GPT that helps coach people through the 100Hours project

Added it to his to-do list

Don’t wait for the perfect idea. Something you wished existed. Ideally something related to your past career. Something you hate and want to change. Not really a finish, it’s more like an art \[see chat for ideas\]

Lost for what comes next? Get idea, break idea into features, and get it to a point where users will be enthusiastic about this

  

“If someone hasn’t accepted my LinkedIn connection request (with a note), what’s the best next step? Should I follow up by email? I don’t want to seem pushy”

No one cares. You’re not being pushy

If the person doesn’t want to talk to you. Who cares? Make the attempt, and if it doesn’t work, move on, and maybe circle back later

No one will remember a month later, definitely not a year later and Leon has said people will thank him for following up for months and not giving up on them. Then, they love to help him

Just keep moving. Some people might be jerks, but who cares

Leon uses Email, LinkedIn, and Twitter

Usually checks in every 3-4 days

After a month, remove the connection request, and then do another request to the same person. This moves to the top of their connection requests, and is often successful 60% of the time

Don’t waste time on the 1% who don’t want to talk to you and miss the 99% who do

Don’t use personal e-mails and contact information. That’s pushy

Public/professional stuff? That’s fine. That’s what it’s there for

  

“What's the format for a great story? Where do we start high school?”

Use the 100Devs Narrative GPT

“Is it okay to reach out to the same contact for referral more than once? What's the appropriate time frame between the asks?”

Yes. Depends on the level of the relationship

Good friend? Ask. Who cares?

Stranger? Ask. Who cares?

Nothing to lose by asking frequently. Just shoot your shot

  

“help negotiating an offer for a role 3h away. They want me to relocate. Do I ask for as much money as possible or just ask to work 1 day a week in the office?”

Once you have the offer letter in hand, everything is negotiable. Start with the best case scenario for you. What would make you the happiest?

How about 6-12 months before relocation?

How about 1x/wk in office while I get my life in order?

Convince them the entire time about how excited you are and how much you want to join. Ask them to help you make it work so that you can do right by yourself for you and your family. Love the team, love everything. Please. Human to human. Help me make it work

This is what Leon does

Go from best case to worst case scenario, but always start from the best and only go to worst if they reject your suggestions.Negotiate everything, especially the job title

  

“Leon, you are using a lot of new tools. where do you go when you get stuck?”

Leon has been part of online communities since he started writing code. Always on IRC, always on Discord

Asks for lots of help in those channels. Some Slacks

Group of friends that he’s always working with

Leon has lots of alt accounts, so that he can ask a lot of questions without it going back to him

Always researches himself first. Spends time digging through docs, talking to GPT. Spends time by himself because he enjoys the figuring out process

When he’s stuck-stuck? Goes to Discord or IRC, and 90% of the time they just make some small suggestion in 10 seconds that saves him 4 additional hours

Also spends a LOT of time consuming content (podcasts, YouTube, blogs, academic papers)

Lots of exposure to the cutting edge stuff

Leon mostly about learning concepts these days

  

“If only through class 37 and have a recruiter wanting to give interview would you recommend doing the interview or waiting until further along”

2 Options:

See what interview is like to get a sense of what they’re like for the future

Good for companies you don’t care about. The practice is VERY helpful

Ask if you can get the interview in 2-3 months, when you’re more actively looking for opportunities

Good for companies you would LOVE to work for

\[3:00 PM\]

Chat: IRC is what nerds use. Yup. But those are Leon’s homies

  

Cold-messaging people is fine. Don’t worry about it. Just do it.

  

Leon has to go celebrate Lunar New Year with family. Will be back on Friday for normal 1 Hour Huddle
