---
tags:
  - the-hunt
  - mindset
  - resume
  - networking
author: Michael Govaerts
date: 2026-11-21
---

(Notes by Michael Govaerts, 100Devs Superfan: https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelgovaerts )

  

\[3:44 PM PT - Nov 21, 2025 -> Rushed notes, Pre-Spellcheck or editing.\]

  

100Devs Huddle - Friday Nov 21, 2025 at 2:30 PM PT

100Devs: https://100devs.org/about/

Part of the Tu/Fri recurring 2:30 PM - 3:30 PM PT Huddles, hosted on the 100Devs Discord by 100Devs Founder, Leon Noel

\- Sessions are focusing on helping people with "The Hunt" (for paid opportunities)

\[Leon and Danny (Danny Thompson, co-host of the Programming Podcast with Leon and Founder and Director of the Commit Your Code Conference) just got off a panel for a pre-recorded conference. Apparently, there was a beach background at some point, per the chat.\]

2:34 PM PT (Timestamps to help follow the chat messages from the 100Devs Discord, from the server stage channel where the Huddle takes place)

Q: Should I make my 100-Hour Project Repo public?

Leon: The goal of the 100Hours project is to have proof that you can perform in a paid role. Public allows it to be more easily shareable. Really needs to be posted somewhere so recruiters can see it and so you can feature it. Many interviews end up asking questions that reference the 100Hours project. If you're using it as a get-a-job tool, it should probably be public. If you're trying to turn it into a business or make money directly off it, then you can consider making it private.

\- Don't let perfect be the enemy of the good. Get proof of your hard work out there as much as possible. No need to go deep on all the edge cases, either. Get all the big features done. Recruiters aren't going to care about the minute details. Once you've got all the big useful impactful stuff done, then you can start going all-in on the tiny details, but +only if you want to+. The returns of focusing on the minor stuff will likely just yield very diminishing returns

\- Almost all the AIs just repeat the same things over and over again, so be careful using AIs for content. People get bored with this, can recognize it easily, and it's therefore much less impressive. Try not to rely too much on AI for our featured projects for this reason, unless you want to feature your AI proficiency for some reason

\- Leon uses AI for a first draft, and then will elevate the design in his own way to reduce the glaring AI smell.

2:39 PM PT

Q: How to transfer internally from one role to another?

Leon: 2 key things:

1) Build relationships with the teams you want to be on. Go to lunch with them, schedule time to chat with them, offer to be helpful to them on their projects, even though you're in a different part of the company

2) Get your boss into the mindset that part of your career plan is to transition to the other team. Probably shouldn't do it right away, because this can backfire a little bit. (Your manager may not be very happy that you're not planning on sticking around with the team, especially if you just got there, and we want our manager to love us and be willing to support us.) A couple of months in, or when your manager is talking about long-term career growth, you can then mention your interest in development work and how you're hoping to get opportunities on your current team to help you move in that direction and potentially transition to another team within the company. Then, later, after you've established your ability and have a much better rapport with your manager, you can ask for support for a transition. Good relationships really help with the transition, and you can then ask for an option to interview for the next available opportunity for the role(s) that you're interested in and have been working towards

\- (Michael: You can also transition to roles at another company if your current company isn't supportive, and at that point you'll have a built track record to show your ability to make this transition based on the work you've been doing while in your current role.)

2:42 PM PT

Q: how do I reach out to someone to connect with who hasn't responded to my initial message, I don't want to come off as pushy or make someone uncomfortable.

Leon: Difference between sending a DM a day, or sending something every few months.

\- Leon expects people to either tell him no or block him, and he makes sure not to be overwhelming.

\-- Follow up after initial meeting. No response? No problem. Maybe they're busy

\--- Reach out about once a month, until they tell him to stop. Sometimes, it takes Leon 6-7 months to connect with someone, and they frequently will tell him, "Thank you for not giving up on connecting with me." People get busy. They may really want to connect with you, so don't be afraid to put in the effort on your end to help with that.

\- Leon isn't showing up at their school or house or otherwise invading their privacy. He's trying to establish a professional/business relationship with a person using either the contact they gave him or their public-facing contact information. As long as you keep it professional and respectful, it's okay to have more outreach.

\[Leon took a moment to reflect on Danny sharing in the chat how he grills fish specifically because he knows Leon is pescatarian:

https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/959571473188659280/1441559755108913294

. This is an example of a great relationship that has been built over time\]

2:45 PM PT

Q: Need motivation:) how much time does it take to get some interviews going if I did my Anki and hitlisted every day

Leon: Good things tend to happen all at once. If you're reaching out to people (hitlisting) and being consistent at doing the work, you should start to see responses pretty quickly. If you're not, someone may need to be fixed. Part of that journey is figuring out all the little things that may be turning people off that need to be improved. This is part of the process. You're going against a ton of candidates, and the hiring team is trying to dismiss people quickly to focus on a smaller number of people who are better fits. HuntOber and the 100Devs job searching content help cover this. Maybe you don't have a good Narrative that explains your career transition or target. After the Narrative passes, maybe your Resume or LinkedIn doesn't clearly establish that you're a software engineer who can solve their professional problems right now. If people are hitlisting every day without these key things, they're not going to find success. You have to put the effort in and then make sure you're putting in the effort, which includes making sure your effort is going in the right direction, and you're not just working really hard at something that isn't going to bring you success. Everything is feedback, including a lack of success, so don't ignore those data points, and make sure you stay connected with the 100Devs community for support and additional perspective, since they (including during the Huddles!) might be able to help you see some issue that you're missing. Come to Huddles and Banki Brunch to make sure you're not missing something major. It's a process of continual refinement

2:49 PM PT

Q: What happened with the google form we filled out to get our linkedins reviewed?

\[All questions coming from the Slido, where people ask questions before/during every Huddle.\]

Leon: Leon is working on this and will likely have an unlisted video posted after Thanksgiving break.

(No Huddles next week due to Thanksgiving)

~~

Q: Asked for a ref for a SE1 position, got a ref for Sr. SE (by mistake) and applied. If get an interview, should I ask to move me to SE1 position?

Leon: Hard to answer. If someone is reaching out to you, it could be two things:

1) They're reaching out to you because they see something you don't see. If so, you should trust them and go with it

2) They're just spamming people and not being thoughtful, and then this may not be worth it.

If it's 1), Leon loves riding that wave. If it doesn't work out, then you can ask the person supporting you to give you opportunities that are less "senior," even though that experience designation is largely just made up anyway. Someone who phoned it in for 5 years somewhere does not have the same experience as someone who really applied themselves for one year. Don't miss out on intentional outreach by people who see your potential and want to help you connect with opportunities. "This might have been a little too advanced, but I would love if you shared me some less senior roles."

If it's clearly 2), you can still ask them that you're looking for less senior roles.

Leon also says if it's a local opportunity, the "seniority" doesn't matter as much, especially with smaller/newer companies. For the Big Tech roles, seniority mentions in the long-established roles likely makes more of a difference.

2:53 PM PT

Q: I left my job (7years+) now I am lost in job market and imposter syndrome hitting hard. Can you recommend mentorship or advice how to assess skill level?

Leon: Start applying to roles you think you're a good fit for. Reassess after five networked-in applications. If it's working, keep going; if it's not working, check in with 100Devs (or a similar community) and determine if your technique may be off or if you may be a better fit for a slightly different role. The best place to know where you are is to start getting into the job search and interviewing game to see how you're doing and what you may need to improve on, either for the roles you're pursuing or if you should consider pursuing different types of roles based on your background and skill set.

2:55 PM PT

Q: Do I put 100Devs as prev work exp for my backg check even though I never received a check from you all. It's on my resume as work exp. This is a clearance job.

Leon: Don't put "Work Experience" on the resume. Put "Experience." That way, you don't have to worry as much about paid or unpaid.

\- If it's a clearance job, they dive deep, so 100Devs should likely be training or education. If you list it in Experience, make sure you're clear that 100Devs didn't pay you. If you got a paid client, be clear the paid client was separate from 100Devs, even if the 100Devs training is what got you the client, which you can reference.

\- Leon went through clearance, and they go deep. One clearance check involved the investigators calling every person Leon had ever lived with over the entirety of his life. Don't create any ambiguity for them to be concerned about.

2:58 PM

Q: What's up with the newsletter and all its good stuff, and it not being sent out?

Leon: No newsletter with this content yet, so you didn't miss anything. It's coming.

2:58 PM PT

Q: How are you feeling? I hope you and the family are recovered and set for the holiday!

Leon: Dealing with lots of stuff off 100Devs, and he's looking forward to the week off to recharge. Leon likes literally going into the woods when recharging (camping), so he's going to be doing that. Leon's looking forward to coming back strong and continuing to do the good work that he's doing. (Michael's definitely a big fan. If you're not familiar with Leon, he's the best.)

2:59 PM PT

Q: I know we shouldn't click apply BUT is it shady for apps to ask for home address ? (Not just city, state)

Leon: Early in the process, kind of weird. Later in the process, it's less weird. Lots of scams right now are out there and trying to data mine you in order to sell your data. Video interviews, lots of personal data, they reject you and make you think you didn't get to the next round, but really, it was all fake, and they're just selling your data to a data broker.

\- This is why sites like Hiring Cafe are way better than other sites. Hiring Cafe listings are scraped from actual company websites. No way to post opportunities, so it's far less likely to have scams.

\- If it's just a random place that you haven't yet validated is a real, established business, you should be very careful what personal information you give

(Michael: This is probably another good reason to network our way in and not just click apply to random opportunities we find without contacting an actual person who seems legitimate.)

3:01 PM PT

Q: How much AI is too much AI? I don't really know if I'm using too much, or if I'm just vibe coding at this point.

Leon: It depends on what your purpose is. If your goal is to ship product for a business or learn deeply to upgrade your skill set. Learning? Learn deeply. Don't let AI steal the learning from you. People who learn their craft deeply and understand how software is built will continue to be weapons regardless of AI. Those who offload thought process onto AI, especially early in the process, are failing to internalize the learning and getting the most value out of the time invested. If Leon were doing a learning process (100Devs, freecodecamp, whatever), he would not use AI at all until he were completely done with the process. Otherwise, he thinks 100Devs's educational content is diminished because it's very hard for people not to rely heavily on AI. As we offload our thinking and effort, we may be getting better at prompting AI, but that's all we're improving. We're not improving our abilities in the areas that are much more meaningful. Once you're established with all the fundamentals, then you can use AI as a thought partner and a tutor. You know enough not to just take AI's content as fact, you're now using it to enhance your process.

\[3:05 PM PT - 3:13 PM - Michael got interrupted. Sorry!\]

Q: Any tips for continuing to learn with a concussion?

Leon: Stop. Talk to a doctor who is experienced with this issue, or several for a consensus view, and follow their advice. Don't have just bashed your head in and decided to fit in our Huddle and are asking for advice. Go get medical attention from the experts.

\- Leon used to play Rugby. Knows what concussions are like. Take good care of yourself and come back strong.

3:16 PM PT

Q: do you still use a kinesis keyboard? if so, which model?

Leon: Yup. Kinesis 360 Pro (Michael may have heard wrong, but it was definitely Kinesis and likely 360). Leon gets very severe wrist pain, and if he doesn't use this type of ergonomic keyboard, he feels it and he suffers. \[Leon has also mentioned elsewhere that it is +very important+ that we really take breaks at least every 60 minutes, like the 100Devs videos emphasize, to make sure that we're emphasizing our short-term and long-term health as much as possible.\]

3:16 PM PT

Q: For those of us without prior professional exp. as a SWE, what's the best strategy to present ourselves as strong candidates and get hired VS someone w/exp?

Leon: Need to know the answer to this question yourself, and make sure you have a built-up portfolio of evidence that clearly establishes the answer to a hiring manager.

3:17 PM

Q: I'm a special ed teacher taking this year off to do Cohort 2 and transition into tech. Are there any tips to make this gap year productive?

Leon: Start networking immediately from the very beginning.

\- Three key tasks of 100Devs: Be consistent, manage frustration, and take care of yourself

\-- Don't try to speed run. Take everything very seriously. When 100Devs tells you to Network, take it seriously. Make a schedule to be consistent. At the end of the journey of 100Devs, if you've followed the process and stayed consistent, you'll have the proof at the end of the process to establish yourself as a good hire

3:19 PM PT

100Devers On Stage (Class 21) \[Jake\_Haver\_of\_Catz\]

\- Another speaker at a conference Jake was part of just tried to recruit him for a position at Microsoft. Jake doesn't feel ready.

\- Leon: Don't worry about it. Don't take yourself out of the game until you get a rejection, and remember, a rejection now isn't a rejection forever.

\-- 100Devs routinely gets into Microsoft through the LEAP program

\-- Every 6 months, you can reapply with most Big Tech companies. (Michael: and this restriction may not even exist at other companies, so you can just keep trying if there's a place you +really+ want to work.)

\--- Based on this and since January is usually the big hiring push, it makes sense to ask the Microsoft contact for a January opportunity to interview

\- Jake gave a shout-out to Danny for encouraging him to automate at his job and ask for a title change to help him in his future developer transition. Jake wants to emphasize that the 100Devs advice works. We just need to stick with it and trust the process.

3:23 PM PT

Q: I've been practicing PREP with code challenges but when you're on the job, do folx talk through coding decisions in a similar way? Thanks Leon! 😊

Leon: Core communication and collaboration? Absolutely yes. During the day, you're going to be defending positions and collaborating with others. Working together to find the optimal way to do something. Very useful skill to have post-interview, too. The ability to clearly articulate what you're thinking is an incredibly valuable communication skill to have.

3:25 PM PT

Q: perfectionism and comparison has led me to essentially no networking for over 2 years. i've built apps, and got clients, but just don't feel professional enough

Leon: Some people always feel imposter syndrome. Just accept that it's there, just like with most anxiety issues, and do your best anyway. (Michael: A common quote in mental health, especially when it relates to anxiety: "Feel the fear \[since it's likely not going to be a fatal thing\], and do it anyway.")

(Michael thought this was interesting: "Impostor syndrome prevalence rates range considerably from 9 to 82%, depending on the screening method and threshold used.\[5\]" <-- It's very common. If you feel it, just realize it's probably a part of being human. We're all trying to manage it alongside each other <3

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Impostor\_syndrome#Management )

\- Remember, very few people remember their 8 great-grandparents, let alone any detail about them. If we fail or look foolish, years from now it's not going to matter. No one is likely to remember. If you mess up while networking, that's fine, just keep moving and improving and realize that most people are just going to forget about it, and we're all in this together doing the best we can at any given time.

3:29 PM PT

Q: I made lots of typos in code. I do not do that in my native language. Is there a way to improve that before interview? Should I even look at keyboard or screen?

Leon: Just let people know from the start that you may have challenges. Anything you're worried about, just put it out in the beginning, establish rapport, and if they're good people representing a good opportunity, they'll be fine with it and support you. If not? Don't optimize for the unkind outliers, just keep moving and doing the best you can. You don't want to work in an unkind environment anyway, right?
