---
tags:
  - the-hunt
  - networking
  - salary
  - resume
author: Anny Levine
date: 2025-12-05
---

by Anny Levine (

[https://www.linkedin.com/in/annylevine](https://www.linkedin.com/in/annylevine)

)

  

fizzbuzz? the most growth comes from doing the hard thing. some folks are natural yappers, but then their projects atrophy and their coding ability atrophies.

The Phoenix Project - novel about an IT org, and you're following this manager who gets pulled up to being a VP...

Job fairs and networking: Advice is you're there to get to know the person, not to apply for a job. I'm going there to meet a point of contact at that company and trying to turn that person into an acquaintance if not a friend long-term. I try not to go in with the intention of 'please let me into the job'. Maybe I can get to know someone, get a coffee chat, and build a relationship over the long term. There are different job fairs that are more specialized... It depends on the niche... Try to make a friend at each booth... Anything to provide value and make a connection.

Can you explain how to get an implicit referral from someone? If you've had a conversation with someone in the past, you send them a message. "Hey, Bob! I saw there's an open role XYZ at your company. Who would be the best person to talk to about it?" Skip the line, and build a connection.

The more personalized your messages are, the better it is, and the further it goes. Favorite time of year to connect is January because you have the greatest message you can send to literally anyone... "Happy New Year! I thought about our conversation last year. How are you doing?" Birthday ones are good, too! January, a lot of jobs open when people have budget again!

Recruiter says relocation needed. It's one day in office per week... Wait until you have an offer in hand to talk about ANYTHING relocation. A lot of things are negotiable when you have an offer in hand. Everything is negotiable. Start with base salary and things like that, THEN talk relocation and things like \*that\*. Relocation is becoming more of a real thing, but so many people in 100Devs have had 1 day a week in office, but it NEVER actually happened. Don't reject something before you have the offer in hand...

You can negotiate a salary that says non-negotiable salary in the post. You're negotiating so many things you SHOULD be negotiating that aren't just salary, but they will also usually negotiate salary as well.

"Hey, is it best to wait for a job to open or is it best to get into the referral pool and try to get in that way." Ask for a connection in recruiting, or whomever is hiring.

Never Split the Difference - book recommendation

For a 20k mobile app project, anything recommended to add to the project proposal beyond what is in the template... At that level of money, you want to have some level of deposit, or milestone payments... Some logic around when the next payment comes IN THE CONTRACT. Make sure you have that spelled out. A Break-Up Clause is ALSO important. You want that in there. Indemnification Clause is in there. Universal License once you're paid in full... Then Client Service. I expect a level of polish and communication at that level. Timeline, expectations, stuff like that that might change. They might hold you hostage, otherwise. How they get preview builds. How often...

We're ALL building on someone else's codebase. You can always have stuff that are deviations from other codebases... but be UPFRONT about it. Don't clone and then build off of the clone. The whole thing is about showing them what YOU can do. You can put everything in the readme. What happened, where it's coming from, what is yours.. You should be able to explain everything that is in that codebase. Be able to talk through the process of how you did everything. What's the logic behind it.

Do we still contact our hitlist in December? Around the holidays? Two ways of viewing this. Either have less time or more time... It's worth it to shoot your shot, but always always always give people an out! Usually wait until the 5th or 6th of January that way people have time to dig themselves out of the holiday buildup.

Job markets go in waves, and every local job market is different. You gotta be shooting your shot, always.

Let the market tell you what to focus on next, whether it's learning a new language, or networking.

Whatever you start with, finish it to the end. Anything that's free, do it to the end, then fill in the gaps per your local market. Always always always with the networking.

Grit, resilience, ability to yap... Every week is a do or do not type of moment... It filters out quite a bit.

How to talk about 100Devs during networking, etc... Training program.

How is it a coherent story, and how can you get to work and they know that tomorrow you will start solving their problems TOMORROW. Get your story solid, and screaming how you can solve their problems.

Give yourself grace. Take the month. Build the project. Then come back in January... Build the proof, then look at the proof of what you can do.

Anything that doesn't come to you through the tools you're using, that's a red flag. If they're asking you to fill out stuff before the process... If they're trying to send you stuff... Scams...

Thanks CrispyNugget for making the stream music.

There will be a COHORT 3!!!
