---
tags:
  - the-hunt
  - technical
  - resume
  - freelance
author: Anny Levine
date: 2026-02-20
---

100Devs Huddle Notes
Skip to content Page list Copy link to this page Fri 2/20/26 Some topics that I found helpful: I asked Leon what he thought about freelancing opportunities in DataEngineering, as they don't seem to be as plentiful as FS WebDev, (Code the Dream is in the process of opening a Data Engineering Pathway alongside their FS WebDev track, and I really like data-driven decision-making and its utility in helping scientific research, so I'm tempted :p) -- Leon agreed. More clients/companies seem to need websites and apps that help make their professional lives easier than those who need more specialized DataEng work. However, he's not sure if there's any clear data on this, and he thinks the opportunities in the high-end may favor DataEng instead of WebDev, so that's something to consider Leon also brought up why he DOES NOT share a syllabus for 100Devs, -- Too many enterprising people go, "Oh. The course is 30 weeks? I can do that in three," and then sabotage their learning in the process, either by not giving themselves enough time to really sit with the material by learning it at a slower pace, or by getting overwhelmed and just giving up. --- All the classes are available on CommunityTaught, so this doesn't seem to be helping people avoid this pitfall -- Another pitfall is that if people see all 60+ classes stacked together, it may seem insurmountable, and they won't even make the attempt. Leon prefers to have people stay consistent by paying attention to each step at a time. Then, once they're on top of the mountain, they can then look back and see how far those steps have taken them. (edited)Saturday, February 21, 2026 at 01:44 [Rushed notes, and I’m still behind on some projects, but hopefully I can spellcheck this at some point.] (Notes by Michael Govaerts, 100Devs Superfan: https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelgovaerts ⁠ ) 100Devs: https://100devs.org/about/ ⁠ Part of the Tu/Fri recurring 2:30 PM - 3:30 PM PT Huddles, hosted on the 100Devs Discord by 100Devs Founder, Leon Noel   • ​ Sessions are focusing on helping people with “The Hunt” (for paid opportunities) (Timestamps to help follow the chat messages from Discord) [Leon answers questions primarily from a Slido, where people can upvote the questions they want answered. Leon usually posts the Slido in the 100Devs Discord (#follow-along-materials channel) about 30 minutes before the Huddle begins. Alternatively, Huddle attendees can put their Discord hands up and ask live, as long as it’s about the job hunt.] These notes were taken on Google Docs during the Huddle. As always, I hope it helps someone and that everyone reading this is having a wonderful day. Thanks, as always, for all the good that you do, especially by taking excellent care of yourself, too <3 Discord Link to Join the community: ​ https://discord.gg/100devs ⁠ … which is necessary to access any Discord links in the community I might have below. Just please make sure to be on your best behavior, and review the server rules channel, as I think 100Devs is a very special place to be <3) Here’s a link to the 100Devs Discord server thread with notes from previous Huddles, too: ​ https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/1410358067450740746/1464407740003778560 ⁠ ⁠ 100Devs Huddle - Fri 2/20/26 - 2:30 PM PT - 3:30 PM PT
All docs
Pages
Huddle Notes by Author and Date
Tuesday 3.3.2026
Friday 28.2.2026
Fri 2/27/26
Tues 2/24/26
Fri 2/20/26
Tuesday 17.2.2026 - DIRTY 30
Tues 2/17/26
Fri 2/13/26
Tues 2/10/26
Fri 2/6/26
Tues 2/3/26
Friday 30.1.2026
Fri 1/30/26
Tuesday 28.1.2026
Tues 1/27/26
Fri 1/23/26
Tues 1/20/26
Fri 1/16/26
Tues 1/6/26
Tues 12/16/26
Fri 12/9/25 Memory Dump
Friday 5.12.2025
Fri 12/5/25
Fri 11/21/26
Fri 11/14/26
Fri 11/7/26
10/21/2025
10/20/2025
10/17/2025
10/16/2025
10/16/25
9/19/2025
9/12/2025
7/18/2024
07/12/2024 How to Network Deep Dive with Jason E. Torres
06/29/2024
06/21/2024
06/18/2024
06/12/2024
06/07/2024
06/05/2024
05/21/2024
5/18/2024
5/14/2024
5/11/2024
Some topics that I found helpful:
I asked Leon what he thought about freelancing opportunities in DataEngineering, as they don't seem to be as plentiful as FS WebDev,
(Code the Dream is in the process of opening a Data Engineering Pathway alongside their FS WebDev track, and I really like data-driven decision-making and its utility in helping scientific research, so I'm tempted :p)
-- Leon agreed. More clients/companies seem to need websites and apps that help make their professional lives easier than those who need more specialized DataEng work. However, he's not sure if there's any clear data on this, and he thinks the opportunities in the high-end may favor DataEng instead of WebDev, so that's something to consider
Leon also brought up why he DOES NOT share a syllabus for 100Devs,
-- Too many enterprising people go, "Oh. The course is 30 weeks? I can do that in three," and then sabotage their learning in the process, either by not giving themselves enough time to really sit with the material by learning it at a slower pace, or by getting overwhelmed and just giving up.
--- All the classes are available on CommunityTaught, so this doesn't seem to be helping people avoid this pitfall
-- Another pitfall is that if people see all 60+ classes stacked together, it may seem insurmountable, and they won't even make the attempt. Leon prefers to have people stay consistent by paying attention to each step at a time. Then, once they're on top of the mountain, they can then look back and see how far those steps have taken them. (edited)Saturday, February 21, 2026 at 01:44
[Rushed notes, and I’m still behind on some projects, but hopefully I can spellcheck this at some point.]
(Notes by Michael Govaerts, 100Devs Superfan:
100Devs:
Part of the Tu/Fri recurring 2:30 PM - 3:30 PM PT Huddles, hosted on the 100Devs Discord by 100Devs Founder, Leon Noel
Sessions are focusing on helping people with “The Hunt” (for paid opportunities)
(Timestamps to help follow the chat messages from Discord)
[Leon answers questions primarily from a Slido, where people can upvote the questions they want answered. Leon usually posts the Slido in the 100Devs Discord (#follow-along-materials channel) about 30 minutes before the Huddle begins. Alternatively, Huddle attendees can put their Discord hands up and ask live, as long as it’s about the job hunt.]
These notes were taken on Google Docs during the Huddle.
As always, I hope it helps someone and that everyone reading this is having a wonderful day. Thanks, as always, for all the good that you do, especially by taking excellent care of yourself, too <3
Discord Link to Join the community:
​
… which is necessary to access any Discord links in the community I might have below. Just please make sure to be on your best behavior, and review the server rules channel, as I think 100Devs is a very special place to be <3)
Here’s a link to the 100Devs Discord server thread with notes from previous Huddles, too:
​
100Devs Huddle - Fri 2/20/26 - 2:30 PM PT - 3:30 PM PT
[Huddle started at 2:32 PM PT]
“hi leon! i had an awkward debrief/semi-negotiation call with a recruiter yesterday; could we possibly talk it through on stage please?”
Yes! Raise your hand, let’s pull you up.
StevenMosesCodes
How do you handle negotiation? How should I be reading into this interaction?
Onsite on Tuesday. Grueling, but got through it. E-mail from recruiter for phone chat less than 48 hrs after ended
Phone: “Hey!” Not an offer yet. Asked how the on-site was. “Great experienced, learned a lot about product, super psyched”
“Feedback looks positive” Steven thinks he was vibing with everyone even if it was tough
Recruiter has some questions
Confirmed title: “Full Stack Engineer”
Path to senior when joining team
Confirmed desired pay range, which was higher than first conversation with Recruiter
Confirmed years of experience. 4, based on freelancing
Recruiter confirmed this was not counting internships (Steven has never had an internship)
Steven said he can confirm start date 3-4 after signing. Recruiter countered 2-3 weeks after signing
Team just needs to debrief and that she’ll get back to him next week
Steven very bad at playing it cool. So just checking with Leon
Leon: Seems like interview went well, and recruiter is trying to advance Steven to offer
At that stage, they have to weigh a bunch of things. Team needs someone soon and at current price point
Very good sign. Would have probably rejected him already if not
May be looking at multiple candidates
Leon likes not going up and down on rollercoaster. Steven played cards very well so far. Now just wait for offer, and keep going on the hunt
Navigated lots of big traps: Title, Years of Experience
Timing seems important to them, so Leon would have said something like “flexible on start date” to be vague so as not to create friction for them
Once we have formal offer, we can negotiate harder
At this point, probably not worth Steven reaching back out to the recruiter and say, “I can start whenever you want!”
(Especially for enough money)
Leon says don’t worry about this. Just wanted to bring it up for the Huddle
Recommends reaching back out to them if they don’t get back to him by Monday end of day. Ask if they need anything else on his end. (Shows continued interest)
Thinks Steven did very well
Looks forward to having Steven come back up with an offer so we can help him get more money
Only way to learn this stuff is by going through the process yourself and failing a bunch of time, or learning from others
Steven: (in the chat)
Recruiter: “Salary Expectation?”
S: “What’s the range?”
R: “We have a range… What’s your expectation?”
S: “Depends on the range.”
Leon says this is how we do it.
[2:41 PM PT]
100Devs version of Slido will not have character limit
“Have a written offer I accepted. Got another verbal offer somewhere else. Want to rescind original written but haven’t got new offer signed. How long do I wait”
Until the verbal becomes a written offer. Make sure new offer is what you want to pursue
Hopefully, you’re not in a country with slavery
Whoever wants to give you more money for labor gets your labor
Company will lay you off without a single thought
Don’t worry about going for more money/opportunity
[2:44 PM PT]
Be kind, respectful, and appreciative of all the people involved, but you have to pick the better offer
The company will always go with their better offer, too. It’s just business. Don’t take it personally, or be personally unkind when you make the same decision
MayanWolfe in the chat said someone at new job got laid off after 20 years without warning. “Go for the money. That’s what the company does”
Just be very kind and open about why you’re going with one offer over another, and then keep moving
“This other offer is just going to make more sense for my family, and I have to take it. Thank you so much for your time.”
No apology necessary
Good line with range and expectation overlap
“Are there fewer freelance opportunities in Data Engineering (Python, AI/Cloud) vs. FS WebDev? Any tips, Leon+Chat? Just a much less flexible career path? Thx!<3”
FS Web Dev has more freelance. Not sure any data supports this, just Leon’s take
Just easier. Everyone needs a website. Maybe everyone doesn’t need DataEng services
Every store/company needs a web presence. Most are building applications
More clients in this area
High end may actually be in DataEng. FS Web dev just seems easier to break into
Lots of opportunities in the field. Freelance would likely be harder. Taking on more serious projects, which probably needs more client service or extreme expertise
[2:47 PM PT]
Leon tries not to apologize as much. Would rather not do so unnecessarily
Argument: “We don’t need a website, we use Facebook”
Has it helped you get consistent leads?
“Are you at capacity? You wouldn’t want more clients?”
If you’re able to get consistent leads, you may be priced ineffectively. I helped client with better website, and they were able to get clients at higher price point. Now they can make more money by doing less work. Is this something you would be interested in?
Always an angle
[2:50 PM PT]
“Can cohort 3 hit advanced topics? 1-2 cover the fundamentals and I’d like to see how you unit test, load balance, back of envelope calculations and etc.”
Lot of people who are coming back in #celebrations at Year 2 or 3 of job
Not a lot of content for these people. Programming Podcast can help
Leon would love to have more formalized training. Thinks this is something that needs to happen in 100Devs, and hopes he can rely on community to help surface some of this stuff
[2:52 PM PT]
“How would you network your way in for a position posted on linkedin by an engineering manager, with a job application link?”
Talk to them
“Saw this opportunity. Very interested. My experience seems to fit for this role. Can we make a time to chat?”
Contact 2-3 other people at same company, too
(From chat) Leon thinks about Roman Empire quite a bit. (Identified strongly with a meme about this)
Book by Mary Beard mentioned in chat that Leon really likes
Normal advice for question above. Just shoot your shot. Fortune favors the bold. No reason to hesitate
“Are you still finding AI to be useful? I loved it 2 years ago but now the output has been disappointing. Seems like it got worse over time or something.”
Yes. Leon actually feels the complete opposite
2 years ago it was trash and did not solve any of his problems
Now, he can produce more work at a speed he would not be able to without AI
Really still needs to be involved
Burnt out pretty hard this week. Very ill. Dizzy. Attributed to coding with AI too much. He has been going +very+ hard. Rarely doesn’t have an agent running, especially with long-running agents. Felt his brain got dopamine’d out
Thinks he went too hard. Has a backlog of ideas he keeps in a document. Has access to AI for free. Can trial agents for zero cost
He went 12-15 hr days with these for 2 weeks. Not a second where he wasn’t ripping. Thinks this was too much
Can see how fast and more he can go. Helps him realize what he wants to spend time on. Find balance of focusing in on 2-3 meaningful projects instead of 12. Code does not really matter anymore. It’s the engineering and product dev that is slowing him down now. Unburdens him in code production, but re-burdens him in the other areas. New bottlenecks now that coding is no longer one of them
Models change very quickly and have different strengths
AI-enabled engineering is now a new skill set to learn
Ex. Project structuring, using tools to help AI understand. Need to employ all this effectively to harness it well
Month or two to learn these skills, and then you can really unlock the true functionality of AI
Most people underestimate how long this ramp is
Always someone new to learn, and AI is just it right now
Leon thinks there’s always going to be areas of incremental improvement that we need to be open to pursuing if we want to stay at the top of our game
Don’t stagnate, and we couldn’t even before AI if we wanted to be successful
Leon doesn’t think we’ll all be product managers. Thinks we need engineering more now. AI is just predicting next steps. Need to combine AI’s ability to grok a codebase and laser in on fixes with our real engineering ability. That’s the real weapon. No harness is really great at full project understanding. Great to save your time in moving to specific files and moving stuff around
Leon wants to do a course on this
Finding this helps SWE feel fun again. Dark arts that take away a lot of the pain points for him
[3:00 PM PT]
“Why don’t you share a syllabus in the cohort? Why is it bad to work ahead?”
2 reasons
When people reach a chapter end, they often quit (based on research)
Creates barrier to get over for next chapter
Syllabus gives exact times to stop learning
Even if you’re not quitting, people often burn themselves out
30 week course minimum? I can see everything on CommunityTaught. I’ll do it all in 2 weeks
Not learning anything, because brain hasn’t had enough time to absorb anything
Might make you feel productive, but is counterproductive to you achieving your goals
This type of individual would otherwise be phenomenally successful, but the syllabus causes them to get in their own way. Leon doesn’t want this to happen to them
Syllabus can also look like a big ladder from the bottom. Becomes too burdensome, and causes us to doubt our ability to climb the mountain. Leon would rather take it step by step
[3:03 PM PT]
“may I put pomodoro website in my CV experience or projects section or its to easy for junior role and I need to create more complex projects?”
Good to remove simpler projects as we get better ones
Pomodoro project may be great
No shame in having simpler projects in the beginning, but as we get better projects, we just let the simpler ones fall of our resume and what we’re using to sell ourselves
“with rising expectation of AI use in job descriptions should we intentionally create projects with Claude files to show we have ecperienxce using them?”
Should definitely understand how to use AI and what the limitations are
Roxy (Chosen One) has been asked to showcase ability to use AI
This is likely going to become increasingly common in interviews
Leah from chat: Also important to be able to talk about HOW you used AI. Need to be able to speak more about things like PRDs and workflows, how plan mode works, how to-dos get broken into agents and subagents. Commands for certain agents. Reptile, bugbot, etc. Vercell agent to check that my hosting is fine. Need a good sense of how to map what your AI workflow is
Leon’s familiarity comes from being online too much and playing with the AI tools
Thinks we should try to do both, in a sustainable fashion ;)
Leon and chat realizes this is an entire class
People often glaze over when Leon starts talking about AI in depth like this
Leon is prioritizing this AI class
[3:06 PM PT]
“Plan Mode” in AI is this product requirement stuff
“Do current interviews include AI use to test if we know how to use it efficiently? What AI should we learn Claude, Gemini or something else? Or stick to no AI?”
Yes. There are more commonly in interviews an expectation from companies that we should be proficient with AI tools
Coming up enough where we should at least have some answers for it. Like opening a door
100Devs goal is to open as many doors for ourselves as possible
Understanding AI tooling is a part of this now
Depends on types of roles. Some are more AI heavy than not
Cursor is Leon’s current favorite AI tool
He has received lots of credits from them, so he has spent lots of time here
Thinks they have the best harness for most of the model
Uses Gemini with Cursor harness to get the most out of Gemini
Thinks he would still use Cursor for this if he had to pay for this
Cursor allows us to switch between different models very easily. Leon now knows which tool he would use for which task. This seems like the secret sauce
Deep understanding of models, which has been helped by Cursor allowing him to very easily swap
New projects? Claude
Dashboards, one-off standalone apps? Gemini
Deep code? CodeX
Start with the free accounts on everything. Play with it. Google subscription gives you pretty good Gemini
Do similar projects across tools. Don’t pay for anything. Shouldn’t be necessary.
Antigravity has good perspective on agent window, but now CodeX has it
CodeX inside of CodeX is faster
Lots of people already have openAI subscription, so that helps with this
Likes CL utilities, but uses these less. Cursor has been a dream
[3:11 PM PT]
“I’m good at coding, but I haven’t had a salaried role yet. Is a junior dev role worth it? I work as a cable technician now and would like a different role soon”
Yes. Personally don’t like “junior”. Entry level roles are great places to start
Engineering is not just the coding. Learn a lot in early professional roles, so helpful to get your foot in the door wherever you can
[3:12 PM PT]
“Do I tie my story to my 100Hours project? They seem a bit different than each other”
Good 100Hours project is typically something that ties to your story, but might also be based on a passion
Use 100Devs GPT to help craft story, and see if your project can tie into it
From chat: AI skills are very transferable
“Can you recommend something to see how to write tests, how test should look like and what to test please? I would like to learn it as some job offers list this”
Every company does testing +wildly+ different. Leon hasn’t traditionally taught it because of this
Just take any of the big testing libraries, read their documentation from beginning to end, and start adding coverage to your application. Best ways to learn
“Test Driven Development” book or course can then help
CodeWars incorporates this, so you may be doing more test-driven stuff already than you realize
[3:14 PM PT]
“I listen to your podcast and got curious. Can you pls do one huddle when you can show how you work with Ai agents, assign them different tasks as team etc pls?”
Sure. We can do this
Don’t want people to get the idea that Leon knows what he’s doing. Doesn’t think anyone does if they’re honest. Leon may be a couple of days ahead because he has been doing it too much. Changes every three minutes, though. Anyone pretending to know if likely lying and trying to sell you something
Can share current setup, but Leon is just playing around and finding things that seem to work for him at a given time
Feels like people are getting taken advantage of online
“I got four Mac Studios and now I’m making $1mil/month and you can, too!”
Leon wants to be a counterbalance to this. Don’t get taken advantage of by the snake oil salesmen that are now using AI to swindle us
[3:16 PM PT]
“I keep hearing AI is taking over Software Engineer jobs, even on CNN. It's making me a bit nervous, because they're making it seem as if anyone can use it.”
It’s their job to make you scared. That’s how news makes a living. They need to keep your attention
Look at hiring data and major company. Hiring is still increasing. IBM is going to be hiring 3x the entry level talent going forward
AI is a multiplier of force, as opposed to a replacement of force
One or two articles shouldn’t dictate your future
Companies are shipping more than ever before. Need way more people to help with this. Leon is very optimistic
[3:19 PM PT]
“I saw that Spotify developers haven’t written code since December and are just checking the AI written code. How do we learn/practice this?”
Try it. They have no idea what they’re doing. They’re just trying it more than you are. Try stuff, adjust, and try it again
Doing it at scale. Non-deterministic systems. It’s a black box
No idea what’s happening beneath deep learning. All made up and we’re just experimenting
“Power law of scaling”
If you keep investing more into LLM compute, you keep getting better outcomes
More electricity and compute gives you better outcomes. Just need to put resources into it to get better outcomes. Not actually sure why this is happening fundamentally. It’s all just experimentation at this point
[3:20 PM PT]
“Leon can you share a doc with these AI models and what they’re good for. This is a lot of information. I get to play with it, but help us start”
Programming Podcast covers this well whenever a new tool drops
Cursor puts out a good price chart. This should be the most important factor, says Leon
Lots of people talk to have either different opinions or very similar opinions as him
Lots of it likely comes down to personal preference
[3:22 PM PT]
“Is this weeks episode of The Programming Podcast going to be released?”
Lots of life stuff right now. Danny has a new opportunity. Might be a little delayed
“what are the best and worst months for job hunt. I will be ready in 2-3months to apply and bit worry that it would be worst time as cs grads may join job market”
Best times are typically January, May, October. Those are the three best months to be in the market. Other softer ones. March, September a little less. Summer is typically kind of bad because people aren’t in office as much.
100Devs tries to schedule around these
Great time when CS graduates are coming in, because lots of jobs open up, and few CS grads have a lot of stuff that they’ve done. They’re usually just kids that studied, got decent grades, and typically don’t have any projects. 100Devs graduates have way more career-related experience, so CS grads should not be much competition
[3:24 PM PT]
“Are we going to make it?”
Definitely! Great hiring period right now. Easiest to learn at the moment, easiest way to get connected with people now. 10 years ago? Way harder to get in touch with people. Now, everything is online. Much easier to network and connect.
HuntOber is key, but that’s more preparing you for January. HuntOber helps you get all your stuff together so that you’re +on it+ in January. Lots of hiring at the beginning of October, too, though.
Feb can slow down a bit, and then March can come back hot depending on what area you’re in
[3:25 PM PT]
“Can you name resources to learn ai engineering please”
FastAI course. Practical Deep Learning for Coders (Jeremy Howard)
Best place to start.
Companion book from library “Deep Learning FastAI…”
Chip’s books on FastAI
Better suited for experienced engineers
Howard’s books are a little bit easier to approach
Danny also has an AI book coming out, but it’s not released yet
Check stage chat for more resources [3:27 PM PT]
This should be more than enough to get started
Thoughts on crafting interpreters?
No. He’s very practical. Doesn’t do as much learning to learn stuff. Wants very practical engineering stuff
He’s not as much into CS theory
“should we put udemy coursera and freecodecamp course cetrificates on linkedin or only certificates from masters like AWS or CS50 pls?”
None of these should be on LinkedIn
These just make you look like a beginner
AWS is fine if it’s the actual professional, industry standard certifications
“I just learned this thing” cert just makes you smell like a newbie, and we don’t want that. We want to reek that we’re a professional who is capable of solving our clients’ problems immediately
This is Leon’s personal opinion, but he thinks they hurt us more than help us
Leah in chat says we should use these skills to build a project, and then feature the project all over the place, not the cert. Leon agrees 1000%
[3:30 PM PT]
“We have Jobuaray and HunTober, are we going to have 'May-ployment' or 'May-nifest'?”
No. May/June is Leon’s vacation time. Lots of time in the woods
“When do you recommend starting to read ai related topics if you’re still early in 100devs? Like when to introduce it?”
Supplemental reading at any point is fine. Don’t use AI in learning process until you’re done with a course (like 100Devs)
Need to learn fundamentals without AI. Otherwise, our learning process is getting interrupted
Can read about and play with AI, but focus on coursework first. The coursework is what is going to get us the job, the AI tool is just extra. AI is a speed unlock, it should not be used at all when we’re learning how to do something
Talk about a 100Devs summer camp in the chat
[3:31 PM PT]
Leon makes a lot of tofu and rice dishes when camping. Tofu, rice, veggie dishes. Shelf-stable for a very long time. Lots of bean chilis. Has a really nice cooler that can help keep them out there for two weeks at a time
Bring musical instruments to play. Harmonica practice recently. (Laughed that ocarina was pretty close. [Zelda reference, Michael thinks <3] )
Back on Tuesday.
“One of the best times to be alive, to be a developer, and if you’re here with 100Devs, you’re so far ahead. You could have been picking your nose and watching Netflix, but you’re here putting in your vision of being a badass SWE into motion. Let’s keep up the momentum, and we’ll meet again to re-energize together next Tuesday <3”
