---
tags:
  - the-hunt
  - mindset
  - freelance
  - portfolio
author: Anny Levine
date: 2026-02-17
---

by Anny Levine (

[https://www.linkedin.com/in/annylevine](https://www.linkedin.com/in/annylevine)

)

ⰻ

Happy birthday, Matthias!

ⰻ

Is it normal for 100Hours Project to take MORE than 100hours?

Yes, ABSOLUTELY. 100 Hours is the MINIMUM. Some people never stop working on theirs. Some people turn it into their business, or ... It becomes a lifelong thing.

It's just one component of what's going on to get a job.

Don't feel bad spending an hour on something small.

The point is that you're going to struggle SO MUCH that will help you LEARN.

Embrace the SUCK. Embrace the STRUGGLE. That's the POINT. You'll do fine.

ⰻ

Is it realistic to be a freelancer AND working a fulltime job?

Wait until you have at least 2 evergreen clients, and at least 3-6 months warchest, more if you have family/kids.

SO you have what you need to get through the stress.

Otherwise, going fulltime freelance is more stressful than it needs to be.

ⰻ

What to do when I get stuck on a task/project that I don't understand?

Make it fun to not understand something. It's a mindset thing. Some people are built different. If failure can be your fuel... If getting stuck on a coding problem doesn't mean danger to me, my loved ones, etc... everything else becomes a lot easier. Then you're doing puzzles or LEGO bricks. I have a deep-deated belief that given enough time and access to the internet, I can figure it out! Be bored. Once you make the binary decision, and let yourself be bored.. Eventually you can get your brain to view doing the thing you don't want to do as an actual reward.

ⰻ

Were you good at math in HS?

Yes, technically. But I got a B+ in class, and I freaked. I have a very good memory. I memorized, regurgitated, and then forgot. I don't feel like I was good at maths, but my academic record disagrees. I've taught myself maths.

ⰻ

jasminepvo (100devs alumna): To build that belief in yourself - build a proof list - i'm sure there are sooooo many things you've overcome in your life that have been wayyyy harder. Keep a proof list to look back at when you feel this way. That's what helped me believe I could be a software engineer is looking back my dev log all the time of everything I've learned and built

ⰻ

suicyco (Micah)

: unless you are doing math based code, like engineering or scientific computing, you really dont need to know advanced math to write code, they are unrelated except at the most basic logic level

ⰻ

vish213

:

Bob Coder 2-column: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Vuo7MQ5WKTMey-JLv8eZ17Zmo-l9or4WQVs3w1\_N2J0/edit?tab=t.0

Bob Coder 1-column: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1agRwOAW\_7fWdsLeUMyogCs0Goo7yHVdu7jzRxVVmB5U/edit?tab=t.0

ⰻ

Best way to present 100Devs experience. It's a full-service agency that offers a training program. It was unpaid but I did get clients. X, Y, and Z.

ⰻ

Angel\_theDev

NVIM

: For folks at the tail end of the cohorts I was shown this website recently that would have paired well with the react docs : https://react.gg/visualized

ⰻ

Fighting the stuck: Keep a really good log of the things you HAVE figured out. A list of all your wins.

Also, adopt an identity: I am adopting an identity around not procrastinating. Not getting stuck.

ⰻ

I need a 100 Hours Roadmap. I can't finish something I can't define.

WHAT DO YOU WANT TO BUILD? WHAT DO YOU WANT TO SEE IN THIS WORLD?

It's done when it looks good. Doesn't look odd or like a scam. Looks like a real site people would actively start using once you finish it. Someone is willing to put their cc info into the website.

ⰻ

dvkr: We need a gippity that coaches someone through an idea

ⰻ

Angel\_theDev

: There is also no "finished" its like art. You decide when to stop, or when its good enough. You can ALWAYS go deeper and make it better, then make that version better, then make that version better etc.. diminishing returns

ⰻ

Art is never finished, only abandoned. - Leonardo DaVinci

ⰻ

Email, LinkedIn, and Twitter are the go-tos for connection requests.

Clear them out and redo them if it's been a month or more.

ⰻ

JB

: I'm reminded of Aesop's Fable 'The Gnat and the Bull'. It's basically 'you're not as important to others as you think you are'

ⰻ

jasminepvo (100devs alumna): ITS THE FIRE HORSE YEAR - SHOOT YOUR SHOT

ⰻ

Relocation? A year isn't doable? Negotiate from the best-case scenario to the worst-case scenario, keep them believing you're the best person for the job. "Please help me make this work!"

ⰻ

Discord and IRC help Leon get unstuck. Tinkering. Alt accounts. Etc. I consume a lot of content. Podcasts, YouTube, blogs, academic papers.

ⰻ

Take the interview, or ask them to put it off 2-3 months. It depends on the company.

ⰻ

Cold messaging is fine with public information.

ⰻ

suicyco (Micah)

: I use weechat/hexchat for clients, and libera.chat is a great server for programming stuff, all the big open source projects host a channel there, plus languages etc... the top most experts are right there (but dont bug em directly lol)

ⰻ

Happy Lunar New Year! The year of the Fire Horse

ⰻ
