---
tags:
  - the-hunt
  - resume
  - networking
  - freelance
author: Anny Levine
date: 2026-02-06
---

\[Rushed notes, and I’m still behind on some projects, but hopefully I can spellcheck this at some point.\]

(Notes by Michael Govaerts, 100Devs Superfan:

[https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelgovaerts](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelgovaerts)

)

100Devs:

[https://100devs.org/about/](https://100devs.org/about/)

Part of the Tu/Fri recurring 2:30 PM - 3:30 PM PT Huddles, hosted on the 100Devs Discord by 100Devs Founder, Leon Noel

Sessions are focusing on helping people with “The Hunt” (for paid opportunities) (Timestamps to help follow the chat messages from Discord) \[Leon answers questions primarily from a Slido, where people can upvote the questions they want answered. Leon usually posts the Slido in the 100Devs Discord (#follow-along-materials channel) about 30 minutes before the Huddle begins. Alternatively, Huddle attendees can put their Discord hands up and ask live, as long as it’s about the job hunt.\]

These notes were taken on Google Docs during the Huddle.

As always, I hope it helps someone and that everyone reading this is having a wonderful day. Thanks, as always, for all the good that you do, especially by taking excellent care of yourself, too <3

Discord Link to Join the community: ​

[https://discord.gg/100devs](https://discord.gg/100devs)

… which is necessary to access any Discord links in the community I might have below. Just please make sure to be on your best behavior, and review the server rules channel, as I think 100Devs is a very special place to be <3)

Here’s a link to the 100Devs Discord server thread with notes from previous Huddles, too: ​

[https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/1410358067450740746/1464407740003778560](https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/1410358067450740746/1464407740003778560)

100Devs Huddle - Fri 2/6/26 - 2:30 PM PT - 3:30 PM PT

\[Huddle started at 2:32 PM PT - Leon Hosting\]

  

Still have a Slido

  

Leon excited to help the 100Devs community, and grateful for those here in chat helping people live, too

Hunt related questions to ask live: Negotiation, Preparing for Interviews

  

Leon’s not really following football. Wasn’t really sure who was playing. Leon lived in Boston for a while, but he’s into the Seahawks for this game. Likes that the Seahawks are incorporating some Rugby tackles into their game

Leon likes the commercials and Bad Bunny

  

\[2:35 PM PT\]

“I just made a LinkedIn and a twitter however, I’m not sure of the kind of content to post, do you have any recommendations?”

Whatever you put in time to learn, you’re ahead of the person that has not yet put in that time. Make their journey easier. That’s it. That’s the only sauce you need. Everything else is Fugazi. Don’t worry about it

Share accomplishments, and be helpful/useful to someone that’s a little farther behind that you are

If you do these two things, you’re crushing the game

These two things will find the right person

Once you’ve done this for a year, then you can start to optimize based on what has worked and what can be done sustainably

Sustainability is key. Lots of people burn out after a month because it’s not sustainable

Aim to show a path about what you’ve done and what has worked. Helps establish you as an authority that people will look to

This is a great way to get started

From chat: Don’t focus too much on gaming LinkedIn, as that loses sight of the goal

Leon: Just be helpful. Don’t try to game. Share your “wins” (anything successful, anything that works, anything you’ve built), build in public, don’t overthink it

Chat says anyone acting like a human on LinkedIn is great

Don’t overoptimize

Cringe Mountain

Most people are afraid of climbing cringe mountain and risking looking foolish. Just make the climb. It will be okay

  

“On class 32 and I'm trying to hitlist but having trouble finding hiring managers what should I be looking for?”

\[2:38 PM PT\]

Finding a Hiring Manager is hard because they’re not really labeling themselves as such

They’re the ones making the decision and that you’ll be reporting to

Better to find engineers on the team. Hiring Managers are often senior engineers

Best tool for this is Apollo. Free account lets you find contact information for people

Looking for job postings and things like that?

Look at posters on LinkedIn, because they’re often more likely to be a hiring manager or someone who cares about who gets hired

Apollo to find engineers, and use LinkedIn to see who posted about it, and try to talk to all of them. Remember, the more contacts the better

  

MayanWolfe in chat: Making silly stuff in public works. Don’t worry about it.

Leon: If you’re livestreaming and you’re building stuff? You’re already so far ahead, because everyone wants to be a DevRel person who can push their stuff live to an audience

Try to package fun in a way that can feature what you’re built or learned, but it’s fine to just focus on the fun in the beginning and you can optimize later (It seems to have worked for MayanWolfe <3)

\[2:40 PM PT\]

“How worried should I be of AI? spoke to a friend who is a software engineer and he says that they use cursor to do all the coding related tasks. AI writes code”

Leon: Then why is he still working there?

There is the issue.

They’re saying: “Look. I have this nice cushy job where I’m just letting AI do the coding…” But they don’t want you to do that?

That’s not a friend 😛

They should be trying to get everyone hired into that role

Try vibe coding an application and see how silly that is

Once you start building with these tools, you notice a lot of things. Even if it was perfect code every single time, which it is not, it actually makes more work for the engineers because you have to take the code and put it in front of a human. Once a human touches the application, all the weird stuff that you’ve never thought of starts to happen. Things break, things fall apart, and no AI can outdo the dirty cheeto-fingers that people bring to your app

What happens then? Now you have to build feature based off of human feedback. AI didn’t architect something that could know about this bug. Maybe SWE job is to architect systems that actually work! Now you’re back at square one

From chat: “It’s almost like you need a developer”

Exactly

AI will always overlook weird edge cases even if you ask it to account for this

Perfect code generation is still going to require engineering

Just accelerating the amount of work Leon gets done, but also causes him to have to spend more time with code.

Best startups right now. Ramp is having exponential growth. Shipping to prod 100 times a day because they’re AI-enabled, but needs tons of humans to be able to do this

Has always been something. Outsourced, offshored, nearshored, low-code (5 years ago with Bubble, etc.), AI is just the new Hype Cycle

Can’t listen to these excuses if we want to fundamentally change our lives and our income potential

If AI becomes really good? Businesses still need someone to implement these things for them. Best case scenario, there millions of low-tech people who need an AI-augmented engineer that can solve these problems

Worst case is the engineers will be the +last+ ones employed if AI takes away all the other jobs

Some people want an excuse not to learn how to code, but there has always been an excuse, and it has consistently not been a good excuse.

Those who have kept going despite the doomsayers have succeeded wildly. Let’s be one of those success stories, and inspire the next wave of 100Devers to succeed as well.

  

\[2:47 PM PT\]

“had an interview today & he said he would get back to me before 5pm and he hasn't... bad sign? it was an intro call”

Leon: Nope. Sometimes life gets in the way. Give them the weekend. Reach out on Monday, and be nice about reaching out

“How to Win Friends and Influence People” -> Always be kind and give people an out

If you don’t know how to be courteous like this, go find this book. YouTube readings, free pdfs online, no excuse

  

“Are coffee chats really the best use of time lately? I just don't think i have the energy ontop of everything else to do them.”

Leon: Stop everything else and do this. Networking your way in is the only thing that works. Real conversations with humans work at scale. Nothing else works as well

Find out how to rearrange life so that you can perform in a way that is optimal. Totally fine to take a break, but make sure you set a return date

Best use of your time has always been and will likely always be to talk to real humans and get referrals

It’s hard work, but it works. We need to put the work in.

\[ Someone in chat got an offer, and Leon says he hopes to see it in the #celebrations channel at some point soon\]

Coffee Chats also don’t have to be in person, especially in the modern era. Just need to interact with those humans

Some people in the chat have said they’ve never had coffee chats in person

Leon agrees. Post Pandemic, people don’t meet up in person as much anymore

  

Cohort 3 is still in the works

  

\[2:50 PM PT\]

“Learn, build, network, then interview comes around, get invested into prep. How to not get sidetracked by interviews?”

Leon: Once you’re taking actions, and you’re actively HitListing, the biggest trap is getting sidetracked.

Interview Friday, and it’s Monday? Don’t spend all week prepping, because most interviews will not result in a job, especially early round ones

Don’t put all your energy in an interview, and then have it not go well, and then your entire week can feel wasted, and now you have to restart the process from scratch. Creates stress and tension because you lose the momentum that you would have if you had also been continuing to HitList and generate more interviews

Having to restart momentum is emotionally draining

Timebox your day: Every day you have some time for HitListing, even on interview days

This keeps your momentum going

TimeBoxing, and having dedicated hours each day for high-impact activities related to the hunt

Keep this up even when you have interviews. It’s a skill that you need to develop, but Leon finds this to be the most successful strategy for people. Avoid the risk of getting overinvested

Some things are going to be harder for you than they might be for others. Just need to experiment with the strategies that work best for you at any given time, and use 100Devs’ wisdom to help inform you in terms of what might work best

  

\[2:54 PM PT\]

Leon points out that he and the Mods can routinely disagree, so there’s really no 100Devs dogma. Just need to be flexible, adaptive, and willing to grow together as a community

  

“What are some ways to heal from burnout? I can barely send a text these days, let alone start job hunting.”

For Leon, he needs a reset, and going someplace in nature where he has no access to the outside world. After camping for 3-4 days looking at the stars, he feels his brain finally relax

Ex. Looking at Washington Column in Yosemite, just staring at it from his chair, and he took a long sigh, felt his brain reset, and he was good for 3 months after that

“100Devs Summer Camp” in the chat resonated +strongly+ with Leon

Biggest thing for Leon is that some behaviors happen when we’re burning out that we perpetually spin into because we’re grasping for dopamine

When Leon is toasted, he consistently uses YouTube for dopamine hints. He knows when this happens, he’s very burnt out. Relying on YouTube or doomscrolling just for some type of reward

Feels almost like a compulsion, and it’s the one thing we can do, so we do it

Leon needs a full pattern disrupt to get out of this behavior, and it takes him 4-5 days for this “zombie mode” (from chat) to go away, and wilderness is what helps him

“What can I fill my time with productively that gets me away from the YouTube/Doomscrolling behavior?”

Books can help this. Reward himself with reading instead of watching. Something productive. Exercise in the morning. Healthy food. Fasting works for Leon. This self-care really helps Leon stay productive. Therapy can help

Most important thing is to figure out what the root cause of the burnout is

Most folks: Feeling like you’re not making progress in the things that matter

Need to break it down into digestible chunks that you have full control over

“Get a Job” is a bad goal

Low odds that you’ll get this on any given day

Better strategy: Focus on the little objectives you can do each day that will help you get that job

Hitlisting, anki, leetcode, etc. every day

At the end of each day, you can see that you’ve done these and made progress, and those daily activities will help you get the big goal

Lots of #celebrations posts about people getting contracts. Big shoutout to those people

Evidence that the 100Devs advice is still working. Just focus on the proven methods

From chat: “Failure is fuel” Leon really likes this. The struggle is what helps us grow

  

\[3:00 PM PT\]

“Can you do a "day in the life" e.g. of a web dev? Like how projects get assigned, timeframe given, how work is presented etc.”

Has to be some good ones out there. Leon’s probably not the best person to do this, because he’s an instructor most of the day. Not really a traditional webdev. Chat will share who they think is out there and accurate

  

“If I use the Harada method to become a Full Stack Software Engineer, what would be the 8 pillars in boxes to start with? My 8 boxes seem kinda basic?”

Need to do this yourself. Someone else’s Harada method will likely not work for you. Should take a week or a month to establish this, and then you’ll be constantly updating it

  

\[3:02 PM PT\]

Leon just answers the Slido question in the order that they’ve been upvoted

  

“If clients want to fix their WordPress and Shopify sites and you lack experience with either, what advice can you give?”

Spend some time and research it. Leon gets paid to solve problems, that’s it. He doesn’t care the tool or the framework. Client needs help with Shopify? He’s a competent engineer, and he can figure out what the issue is, what the client needs, and he takes a week to figure out some worthwhile solutions that work with the client’s budget. Here are my top 5 recommendations, what could work well, what the trouble points might be, etc.

Two kinds of decisions (may be from Bezos):

Cohort at Resilient Coders (RC) to build agency:

Decisions that are very easy to reverse

These are great. Go at it. No big deal if it’s wrong

Decisions that are very hard to reverse

Be more careful about these

Shopify should be pretty easy most the time. Very reversible decisions. Tricky stuff may just be going back to a previous commit, and that’s a very easy fix

Most of the clients Leon works with need help with someone Leon doesn’t have experience with. That’s fine. Spend more time on the harder decisions to reverse, and be willing to experiment with the easy decisions

Anytime you can do something with a client that opens up your knowledge, that’s great

More experience with Wordpress or Shopify, that’s an opportunity to expand your skill set so you can help other clients in these areas

  

\[3:05 PM PT\]

“Thoughts on using AI when completing 100 Devs? My current plan is to only use it in some projects after completing the full course so I have some experience”

Leon recommends not using AI at all. Huge mistake that cheats us out of learning

Any shortcuts we take while learning is preventing our brain from building the connection we need it to build

Most people do not have the restraint to keep AI from harming their long-term trajectory and learning

Advice for 100Devs? Do not use AI +at all+

Once you’re done with 100Devs, please feel free to use AI to help you learn how to build with AI on a project

Whenever Leon learns something new, he tries to avoid AI as much as possible, and only checks with AI when he feels like he has achieved mastery on a topic

  

Chat: Worst part of learning is you can’t skip the hard part. If you skip those parts, then you’re not really learning.

What AI does is it puts all the information right into your chat window. That’s a huge disaster for learning

Does not let you build the connections that you would build when looking up this information. Lets you see the differences and similarities, and the connections between tools. The journey is the learning process, and AI does all this for us.

  

\[3:08 PM PT\]

“I'm ready for the hunt and have more time for the next 2 months after being laid off. I find myself clicking more since the hitlist( 4month+)method seems slow?”

Clicking is going to leave you in the same spot without opportunities. Clicking is all about getting lucky. 300 bots are applying even though they’re not real people. It doesn’t work. Leon hopes you get lucky, but you need to HitList if you really want to succeed

Even doing both is not a good use of your time. Leon has data on thousands of people. Handful get lucky clicking apply. For the vast majority, it’s a complete waste of time

Chat: 4 months you can have a network looking for jobs for you, or nothing because you’ve been clicking. Great dopamine hit to click apply (40 applications today! WOO!). None of those got read by a human, and you’re not closer to your goal

  

“When is a good time to ask my contact for a referral if they're a new employee? They've been at this company for almost 3 months”

Just ask. Worst case is they say no, and then you can just move on. Shoot your shot. Can’t lose a job you don’t have. If you don’t ask, you’ll never know.

  

“How big of a role does job posting's date play? Is it okay to reach out to recruiters if it's been over 2 weeks since it's been posted?”

Our strategy does not require an open posting. Any company that hires within the past 3 months has funding to hire. Only 30% of jobs get posted. Clicking doesn’t work, as we’re only clicking on 30% of jobs

These are the stats

70% of jobs do not get posted, so if you’re not networking your way in, you’re missing out on this 70%

Doesn’t even need to be a role we qualify for. If they’re hiring, they have the budget to hire us, too

  

“What do you do when you are out in the woods?”

Sometimes he’s just solo camping and reads. Hugs trees. Smells stuff. Look at the sky. Go on hikes. Climb on stuff. Go down deep. Lay in the grass. Likes being there with family when he can, though. Spend time with the things that matter, and then come back refreshed

Chat wants a “Leon in the woods” tutorial 😛

Leon has a StarLink Mini with a battery pack, so he can still stream when he’s out in the woods, too

StarLink’s 5 hour battery has saved him when his cell dies and he has no GPS signal. Puts him back in business

When Leon’s out recharging, though, he stays away from StarLink. He just likes it so he can be mobile when he wants to be

  

\[3:15 PM PT\]

“how do you read fast and effectively? Im finding getting through docs is a skill in itself and eventually im sure i will need to write docs for my code. Tips?”

Reading is a skill, and needs to be developed. Leon is not the fastest reader. Likes to take notes and highlight, not for learning, but to explore material

Some things that work when reading to learn:

1) Read the intro, conclusion, and chapter headings to give your brain a good schematic to fill in

2) When reading, take questions, and then answer those questions at the end for active recall

3) Figure out what your focus point is, and once you can no longer easily focus, then take a break, recharge (maybe 5 minutes, maybe 60 minutes). Once you’re having trouble retaining paragraphs or remember what you read, that’s break time. Pomodoro can help with this

Two things that hurt people:

1) Beeline reader can help people transition from one line to another

2) One word at a time reader can help people from missing stuff

This can get people to 300 words from 100 words in a given period, as they can really help with comprehension and the transition between words/sentences

Chat says dyslexic-friendly fonts can help, too

  

\[3:18 PM PT\]

“Can the chosen one come back on stage? I loved hearing from them and think them doing this series is awesome and inspiring!”

Leon hopes. They’ve been doing great in the 100Devs channel. Landing interviews very well, after dialing a bunch of stuff in. Leon (and Roxy, the current Chosen One) are looking forward to sharing the successes

  

“How should my first message to a recruiter on my hitlist look like if I'm not asking about the current job posting?”

Can go for the kill with recruiters and pitch them directly and tell them what you want

  

“What about for mid level and senior jobs? Is hit-listing a better use of your time if you want to get hired quickly?”

Hitlisting is the best. Networking is key. Mid/Senior usually only hire people they know. How else are they going to know you?

Networking gives you the cushion so if you ever get laid off, you have that network that can help you find the next opportunity

The more senior you get, the bigger your network should be and the more you should rely on it

  

“Posting on github increases my anxiety. To the point ive put it on private and want to build my projects on an IDE in isolation. How much do i need to share?”

No one cares about your projects on GitHub. Anyone complaining about your projects or some typo is probably not someone you have to worry about

Should be no anxiety about pushing to GitHub

Private projects are fine if you want to keep stuff secret

Leon has projects from 10+ years ago on his GitHub that are trash. No worries at all

Isolation piece is a problem. Developers don’t work in isolation. You have to be comfortable working with others, as that’s how most people work

There’s also a social anxiety community on 100Devs that is working together to manage this and get better <3

  

“I want to use the Bob AI story crafter but I genuinely have thought and have no legitimate job accomplishments, didn’t even graduate high school. What do? 🥲”

Use it! Just try! It costs you nothing! Just try it! (Leon made Michael laugh here. He +really+ wants you to try it.)

Don’t ever make that mistake in life again. ALWAYS TRY! You lose nothing by trying. Always try.

Leon understands where this come from, but remember our new 100Devs Motto: Failure is fuel

No one cares about our mistakes, especially if we’re learning from them

Don’t do the weird things to save ourselves minor pain, because this causes us major pain when we miss the opportunities we’re too scared to pursue

  

“My question is, are the learning depth explained or is it just to glimpse ahead and see?”

Having trouble with 100Devs

100Devs is about much more than code

Leon is trying to get people to show up and be part of community. This is the only thing that’s going to help you get a job

Get people used to reading, because Developers do a ton of reading. (That’s what Shay Howe is for. Help us develop a strategy to get through intimidating text or documentation)

Lots of 100Devs is a process Leon has honed over the years of teaching people to get people fighting fit to being a SWE

Some people skip lessons that they don’t feel very good about or think are important

This is a mistake. 100Devs was meticulously designed. We should follow the process exactly. If we skip around or jump, we miss a large part of what makes 100Devs alumni successful. Keep the pacing, do all that’s asked of us, and we’ll finish the process as prepared as we can be

There are places in 100Devs where people might realize they don’t really want this. That’s fine, but the tough parts aren’t designed to weed us out, they’re designed to help us build ourselves into capable SWEs

  

“I have my first ever live coding assessment interview soon. how to not be EXTREMELY nervous?? I am worried they are expecting more than I am able to do.”

Try to get confirmation from them about exactly what you’re running into, so you can be prepared

Do your homework, too. Online research about company. Record yourself, come meet with 100Devers and do interview practice as part of our community

It’s okay to be nervous. You’ll get more comfortable over time. First 20 interviews should just be you getting the comfortable interviewing. Even with this “practice”, you’re still likely to get an offer after 60 interviews

  

\[3:28 PM PT\]

Answering live

Miguelisms. CV review

Gave two versions in chat. Leon wanted to know which he thought was best. Went with this one:

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1q1zPzJO16b1omoenfigxykaqFNrMyuonh\_L-ecUOP\_U/edit?usp=sharing

“Version 2”

Looks fine, says Leon. Assuming that he’s switching from another industry. Miguel not mentioning that he’s a video editor

Leon would want an executive summary that explains that transition

Only get six seconds to start, and resume as written seems like something is missing

If a recruiter is unsure, they’re unlikely to move you to the next round

Executive summary helps explain transition. Companies are looking +a lot+ right now for DevRels with video editing experience. This would be a selling point. Don’t miss the opportunity to use it

Working professional experience will help set him apart

Fine to list previous professional experience, as long as you have a good reason for why you’re an engineer now

“10-90%” productivity gains seems too made up. Need to be very specific and be able to explain exactly how you did this

Goal is to create a resume that will cause the recruiter to be +excited+ to push you to the next round

Video Editing history should give the biggest wins Miguel can. Show he has a track history of success

Leon happy to review this again next week

  

\[Huddle ended at 3:33 PM\]

Work on Hitlisting over the weekend. Keep up the projects so that we have proof to show people. Have a great weekend <3
