---
tags:
  - the-hunt
  - technical
  - networking
  - resume
author: Anny Levine
date: 2026-01-30
---

by Anny Levine (

[https://www.linkedin.com/in/annylevine](https://www.linkedin.com/in/annylevine)

)

Hey @everyone your #100Devs Huddle starts in 60 mins (<t:1769812200:t> your local time)!

<:anothaone:740581548717506712>\*\*Give Congrats in <#735936014832369687> to \*\*

<@426417024638517249> For their new Senior Software Engineering Role!! “This new role and my first came from recruiters reaching out to me on LinkedIn, and my second one came from someone I met at a virtual tech conference. Having my LinkedIn profile up to date with all of my skills, speaking about myself in a positive way that really shows my value (bangers only!), and networking!!! really make such a difference. I wasn’t the strongest at either of those things before 100devs, but I really put in the work to make it happen.”

<@624016178309890058> On their first paycheck!! as a freelance technical consultant! “Back in June, I started volunteering for a childhood cancer nonprofit, and what began as a scripting role quickly grew into data engineering and analysis work. By fall, I was asked to join as a freelance technical consultant. And last night, I received my first paycheck!”

<@318870135240654848> for finishing their 1000th Codewars kata!

–

<a:heartrainbow:687043845636096054> Some links worth your time this weekend: ☕ “How To Coffee Chat” Guide:

[https://madeleinepbelanger.substack.com/p/how-to-coffee-chat](https://madeleinepbelanger.substack.com/p/how-to-coffee-chat)

📺

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=45YTtESYyY8](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=45YTtESYyY8)

📻

[https://open.spotify.com/episode/3PZQiZ0EMOoo0EgaFcx8ST?si=7dfc12b149db48e3](https://open.spotify.com/episode/3PZQiZ0EMOoo0EgaFcx8ST?si=7dfc12b149db48e3)

–

Then come ask all your #THEHUNT related questions live!!

<a:bluedot:1257791102078029994> Join us here at 5:30pm ET:

[https://discord.com/events/735923219315425401/1466902493391884524](https://discord.com/events/735923219315425401/1466902493391884524)

<a:bluedot:1257791102078029994> And ask your #THEHUNT RELATED questions here:

[https://app.sli.do/event/eFjGa842bfpu4RsasimCFR](https://app.sli.do/event/eFjGa842bfpu4RsasimCFR)

Leon’s vibe-coded a version of Sli-do that works better. We’re trying it next week!

What’s the best place to research companies to work for I’d like to add to my hit-list? Top companies to work at in my city. THrow that into Google. Notice companies with good work conditions. Top tech companies in my area. Looking for people hired in the last three months… or with Hitlist Magic that have aggregate best lists… During Huntober, looking for companies that just raised fundraising is a good way to get companies on your radar. Glassdoor has good feedback on there. You add over-time, too.

Should I send a thankyou email to everyone on the hiring panel? YES. Every single person gets a thank you. Don’t overthink it! If you spent more time with someone specific, you can do a little more! “Thank you. It was great meeting you. I hope you have a great weekend!” Apollo or

[Hunter.io](http://Hunter.io)

to find emails. You can sprinkle in anecdotes. The person that’s your main point of contact, you want to end with a question. Just so they have to respond to you.

Furrn: good luck sending a contract and proposal today!

I keep an Apple Note of all the things that my ADHD wont let me do, the things that are difficult, and then I just put it into GPT and ask it for a good next step…

Why they left LMG/Linus Tech Tips? video. Feel relief or accomplishment having done the task?

I had to record myself answering questions for a hiring application… Don’t overthink it. Make eye contact with the camera, and you can look away. It’s natural. It’s okay to look away and think. I like to use my hands to show that I’m thinking. Then I’ll come back and engage the camera again. People overthink it. Record yourself answering some similar questions and see if it looks natural to you. See if it’s true or not. If it looks like you’re reading, try something else… just practice it. You can put something on the wall. If it’s a real problem, get a teleprompter. Then you’ll be looking dead center. :)

Spaced-repetition by thanking after the interview and as you’re walking out, that’s never too much.

Mayanwolfe put a template: “Hi , I really enjoyed speaking with you and the rest of the team today about the role. Please let me know if you have any additional questions and I look forward to the next step in the process.” So basically the same messge, just slightly less formal

blackheadband: hack: run your voice through a voicechanger when playing back 😄

dvkr: I think it’s Amazon that has 1 - I will quit if you don’t hire this person 2 - I recommend you hire this person 3 - I recommend you don’t hire this person 4 - I will quit if you hire this person

Is only Js Ts not enough anymore? Your local area might not value these things… Finish a full course and from there you have a really solid foundation to go learn something else. JS and TS is enough. Some local areas… A lot of recruiters assume one is frontend one is backend, but that’s not true… It’s just the recruiter that you’re talking to.

Mayanwolfe: It’s not about the language, it’s about the skills and how you sell yourse;f

The 5 minute denial letters, there’s something they’re using as a knock-out question. Especially in the US, there’s a lot of stuff around employment law… and legitimately if you get past the simple knockout questions, you have to be seen by a human. What often happens is they quickly scan, and you don’t pass the 6-second sniff test from the recruiter… Use the resume template and the story builder for GPT so you can get past the AI.

ROxy RodBeck: i use AI to tweak my resume and cover letters for specific roles…i dont straight up copy and paste. i then tweak the AI’s response to be more like me/true.

There’s a signature in the text that you just copy and paste. I use WhisperFlow for everything… If you don’t go over things yourself, you want to redo it inyour own words, even retyping it. Your resume just sucks if you can’t get past those initial 6 seconds, and you can fix it! That’s a good thing.

Which option would best improve my chances of getting hired? It depends on what role you’re going after. Situation dependent. Research if it’s a research role. For most people an independent project would be best. Keep a wins list/dev blog of everything you’ve done so you can communicate it later on, if you’re working OR NOT WORKING.

<@153255600623452160> Any tips on how to “safely bypass” nda when it comes to delegated work from my mother company? Lets say I was woring for X but did work as support at Epic which is big name

You gotta talk to the team. You can always ask for concessions if you need them. For example, conferences… There are no shorcuts for NDA. You need approval.

How does one regain confidence after being let go? If you have the privilege, take a second. Let the past be the past. At least take a week, if you can… Depends on your emergency fund. Two weeks is better to take off, if you can. Let the stress go. Start making a game plan for what you WANT. What your goals are, where you want to be, what you really need things to be like. Treat that like a job. Do other stuff, read, explore, etc… but KEEP A STRUCTURE.

Confidence comes from proving to yourself that you are who you say you are. That you can do what you say you do.

Do CAR. Go to Banki brunch. Etc. PRACTICE.

How do I get back to banki after a couple of months? You can just wipe the slate clean, or up your review to 50-100 cards a day. Pick an amount of time that feels comfortable to you. Trust the algorithm. Start with a block of time you know you can commit to. Not specific time, but a time of day more or less. Lower the activation energy. Maybe a 5 minute session instead of a 30 minute session. Don’t let the total number of cards be overwhelming.

Walking pad, Anki, and Brilliant.

What do you use to record your interviews? Podcasts? Riverside. If in an interview? Typically OBS. There’s one people really like… but there are a bunch of AI voice recorders… Know what state you’re in. One-party consent area? Be wary of what you’re able to do.

When to follow-up if you haven’t heard back after a week? Try Sunday or Monday. Craziest was 8 MONTHS LATER.

Data structure and algorithms focus for frontend data role? It depends on what door you open. There’s only so many opportunities. Open up ALL the doors you can. What do you have time for. WHich are the most effective for you. FAANG it’s necessary.

You can get away with anything specialty0wise in the Bay. JS and Python is more than enough. You have to be smart with your hitlisting.

Don’t overthink a portfolio. Most people just won’t see it. Heros, projects, experience is just fine.

Add on accessory things, like React, once you’ve done your 100hours project.

Freelancing February to figure out how to reach out to potential clients? If you’re cold-emailing people, it’s probably not going to work. You have to do something that stands out. Keep it simple, or casual, and value. Especially cold.

How to approach a connection with a higher up? Theyre only a damn human. Don’t treat someone differently than a normal person. Same value as you.

Feelings on using OpenClaw to handle emails? There’s triage levels, yes/no… But there’s a lot of automation that can help. Gemini in line with Gmail has been absurdly helpful. Ex: last 5 projects I worked on with this person. Not having AI in the mix is the mistake. It’ll give you an edge.

Do a basic react project for react roles and over time just add to it.

Miguel (hand-raised): Video editor, changed to software engineer, then changed it back. Trying to get a job and it’s been 4 months, going to networking events, but when they see my linkedin… Putup on LinkedIn what you’re looking for roles in. Don’t give the impression that you arent who you say you are, and that you don’t have experience. You can incorporate your past into your present, but maybe you’re doing something that brings your background into your present search.

Daniel (hand-raised): asked about the backend language stuff. “I have experience with those! I’m interested in learning more. I’d love to talk about it.”

There’s an urge to not oversell yourself. This is the one time in life you MUST oversell yourself. No pre-apology.

Recruiters are trying to get as many crabs into the bucket as possible. Don’t kick yourself out of the running, if you know one of those options they’re talking about on the job posting.

A lot of bigger companies will let you interview in whatever you want to interview in.

Plethora.js

Lesliee Coder (hand-raised): read “how to work a room” if you have to lead a team of 5 engineers in an interview. FizzBuzz. Etc. Lean into what you’re being asked to do.

Try to find what they’re going to ask you.

PREP AND PRACTICE and you will be fine.

Lexi (hand-raised): How to get accepted into a higher role? Sometimes they’ll make a higher offer, but sometimes you just have to ask. Save it for the negotiating phase once you have the offer.

Matthias (hand-raised): getting a job bootcamp! of course you still belong here. if you don want to be a software engineer sometimes it’s the friends you make along the way.

Alex K: How valuable is restaurant management experience in the tech field? It’s more of a time thing. If you can do the management experience AND work to your goal, move the needle? Probably not… If you’re stable and able to have more time to learn, that’s probably the best, but do what you need.
