---
tags:
  - the-hunt
  - resume
  - networking
  - freelance
author: sheep (Kayla)
date: 2024-05-18
---

notes by sheep (Kayla)

  

I’ve made it to the final stage. It’s a cultural INT with the VP of tech and head of product. Already had a behavioural INT,what’s the difference between the 2? depends on the size of the company, especially if it's a small one the VP might want to sign off on the new people coming on always ask what you're walking into is there anything about the interview that you can find online? check sites like glassdoor know about the company, values of the company, missions, etc, so you can talk about how you uphold them the hardest interview of leon's career was a cultural interview with the CEO that went completely technical How do you handle employment gaps on your resume and discuss them in interviews (Returning to school, young children, etc.)? freelancing! you were freelancing the freelancing project you are asked to do will back that up and give you clients that they can talk to had a coffee chat, but didn’t quite hit it off with the other person. i feel awkward asking for anything else, let alone a referral. how to move forward? there is no HUMBLENESS IN THE HUNT can't lose a job you don't have, always make the ask what is pride? shoot your shot (for the job) sometimes the interaction is only awkward for you, assume the best you're your own worst critic sometimes, your brain is good at being mean to you for people in catchup crew - if let's say you start cohort 3 in couple months, and catchup ain't done, should they redo the full live cohort ? or is it okay? make that decision when it happens if you're deep in cohort 2, you might pick up a few more things but the content will largely be similar is it true that we are lying by saying that 100devs was an employer? ive seen this posted around discord it depends on what you say you did training program tied to an agency is the truth the threshold people have for resumes is made up show the freelancing you did because of it, that's undeniable work that you did you can't please everybody; some interview folx might not agree but one of 60, keep going What’s the best way to increase dms to a coffee chat? I customize each message but seem to have such a low response rate even just for a coffee chat. Thanks! what's a low response rate? think in the hundreds depends on the type of message and type of area(Twitter, LinkedIn, Instagram, email) keep reaching out, and think about what type of message would YOU open and respond to. always snowball, "Who should I talk to next?" Im the person who got the opportunity to teach esl in korea & I was wondering how to network in a country where my visa only allows me to teach? is it worth it? you have to be super careful, this is Korean labor law, talk to someone who knows reach out to fellow expats working in tech don't listen to people on the internet talking out of their butt about legal issues Friends co is hiring 4 DevOp/Cloud Engineer position. Asked me to apply & send resume so he can forward 2 HR. Do I ask to lmk if a SWE opens or apply to this? depends have honest convo if they're an actual friend if not, go the route they say(apply and send in your resume) and add on that you'd like to know about SWE positions too if they pop up How do you never eat alone in a remote position? the same way you do in person, eat awkwardly in front of your coworkers ask to hangout over lunch, or let people know you're available to talk during lunch be the person to set up events! gatheround was a site used early on in the cohort I have a company that wants proof that I worked at 100devs through pay stubs what do I do. I have volunteer experience, do I just tell them about it if you completed Huntober, ask via ModMail for the mods to verify your time how to i reach out to busy people who said they'd get back to me about coffee chats but haven't yet, what kind of message can I send them be persistent! you don't know what people's lives are like, they could of had something crazy going on, just follow up Do we need a job to play csgo? no Hey Leon, Is it okay to use the same cv bob template when applying to the next job or is it for first job only ? the CV Bob template is more geared toward first job as SWE while the template itself is fine, some people switch to the Harvard CV after How and what do we ask about an interview's content - for example, who is interviewing me, is it technical, and if so what kind of technical questions? that's exactly the way you ask just make it more formal and interesting sounding! How many months of work experience does it count as? If I started 100devs 2 years ago and only made money a few months ago? Is that a few months or 2 years? up to you, that's the beauty of self-paced learning some people only count the time they were most recently actively working on the cohort Whats going on with the CS:Go server? I saw mention of it on your twitter; can we make this a thing and get to work (at the office 😉)? Leon has it running but hasn't launched it there's a planned week of events when maintainers launch and it might be fun to hangout in the evening there 17.Im at 6kyu in codewars, and still my code is mostly brute forced. Am I lacking in my basics? no 6kyu is the time to switch to LeetCode if you're brute-forcing be analytical of your solutions and reinforce your patterns use the 20 min rule before analyzing the solution and adding the pattern to Anki feeling competent and confident helps a LOT and that's what code challenges should do know your strengths and weaknesses but don't take it to heart! it's a game! it should be fun side conversation: this is a pretty great video to watch if you have a Mac, it brought a lot of settings Leon didn't know about to his attention, especially a break timer called Time Out that has you take small 10 second breaks by greying out your screen. Perfect time to take a break from typing. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GK7zLYAXdDs take longer breaks are important too ! stretch! move a bit! take a quick walk! YouTube Syntax Set up a Mac in 2024 for Power Users and Developers Image
