---
tags:
  - the-hunt
  - networking
  - resume
  - technical
author: sheep (Kayla)
date: 2024-06-05
---

by sheep (Kayla)

Missed some of the questions due to wifi issues but @HEMAD (Class 12) tapped in and took some notes that will be coming soon. That being said I want to start off the huddle notes properly.

If you haven't read the article Leon posted in the #follow channel, please take a moment and do so now here (

[https://t.ly/zqDmx](https://t.ly/zqDmx)

) . For people having issues with the link, I'm attaching a pdf version as well.

Federal\_appeals\_judges\_rule\_against\_Fearless\_Fund\_grants\_for\_Black\_women.pdf

1.8 MB

Federal\_appeals\_judges\_rule\_against\_Fearless\_Fund\_grants\_for\_Black\_women.pdf

Things like this affect everyone. Everyone should have access to the tools to make a living for themselves, put food on the table, and generally just live life. And day by day, these tools are being taken away for no other reason than the system is set up and maintained in such a way that the people on top stay on top. Leon talked about the importance of showing up and supporting each other, about building systems where everyone thrives especially since more and more doors are being shut and we should strive for that not only in our online spaces like this server but in our day-to-day lives. I take notes on huddles and post them here just because I want everyone to be able to access the information shared, even if they can't make it to the huddles. But as a small, small favor in return for today's notes, sometime this week, help a fellow human being. It doesn't have to be a huge act, just do something nice for no other reason than you could.

  

And in the spirit of contributing specifically to the 100Devs community, check out the Maintainer's form here (

[https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/738891289071714388/1154886156056526938](https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/738891289071714388/1154886156056526938)

)?📝follow-along-materials? and if you can help out, do so!

  

did few courses & skimmed thru materials, I know things bt not enough to do anything, how do I restart without feeling like I'm repeating the learning process?,

go deep not wide, don't jump from course to course. stick to something and see it all the way through to the end,

you're not learning if you're not engaging your brain, you're busy and that's the worst thing if you're trying to learn something. do the work, take the examples, and make it your own by adding more things. being able to build on to something shows you can do things.,

repetition isn't bad, it's the KEY to learning. repeating or SRS is how we fix the forgetting curve,

you're ahead of the people who haven't done anything and have just said they want to code. you have your own pace, attune to it, and stick to that, not anyone else. BE KIND TO YOURSELF, if you can think up negative thoughts, you can think positive ones,

2.I get SO many inbound recruiter interest which usually is just a song and dance that ends up leading no where. Tips to increase success rate when working w/ rec

have a prewritten response to give to MOST recruiters; essentially something that says "Here's my dream list, if you can meet it, let's talk.",

move away from a generic message if you're new to the scene. identify what brought the recruiters to you and highlight it,

you might be doing something unconsciously that's causing you to get ghosted, be analytical of what you're messaging them,

3.I go to meetups but I usually only meet other people looking for jobs. Any advice? (many lost jobs due to layoffs, etc.)

that's pretty normal, people hustling go to more meetups,

try more technical or hack night meetups, those generally will have fewer new-to-the-scene people,

think about what events would attract people in a more senior dev position and consider that when planning,

see if you have a local hackerspace and if you do manage to find people you vibe with, ask where they go.,

4.Can we still apply for program verification? I’ve completed the steps but never bothered to apply.

yeah, you can submit it. if you need it quickly, send a modmail,

5.Where did you camp in Yosemite on short notice?? Or did you stay in a lodge. Fellow outdoor enthusiast here.

Leon used a bot called campflare,

set up days you want to hike or stay and the bot will send you a push notification when people drop their reservations,

6.if we are in catchup crew and are going through the checklist , can we still be accepted into the linkedin 100devs group and endorse people?

of course, all get accepted unless people don't have a photo or title,

follow leon on LinkedIn! he wants to share more content there to get more people to 100devs! https://www.linkedin.com/in/leonnoel/,

7.Hey Leon, How do I renegotiate an increase in salary if I do two jobs in one, I design UI for mobile and web apps alongside frontend work.

depends, are you up for renegotiation?,

think about your points of leverage aka your body of work or have another offer to put some pressure,

be vocal about your value, not just then but all through the year! make 3/6/9/12 month goals in writing with your superiors and crush them! and let them know about it,

corporate culture isn't friend culture, but make an effort to acknowledge people and give credit where it's due,

show that you're doing both jobs and deserve the money for it. don't wait for the meeting either, take the intiative and set it up,

8.news on cohort 3?

Leon's ready to go to work,

he wants to have a huge focus on community support and serving the larger initiative of building systems of equality,

9.What do you mean before it’s too late?

look at wealth distribution, the scales are against us,

every step of the way there are barriers for every single person, doesn't matter your race or creed,

when Leon says it's too late, he means more and more windows are closing. it's up to us to make communities, support each other, and help each other through, nobody else is going to do it.,

10.hey leon hope you are doing well. during networking events and coffee chats should we bring up the fact we are actively looking for work?

no,

you're there to make friends, don't increase your new developer smell, most people aren't smooth enough to not make it weird,

11.I have built 3 full stack web applications but not gotten a job. should I continue building web apps with react JS or focus on learning another language like C#

none of the above, you need to network,

those things are nice to have, but you should be networking to have your foot in the door, you can't show off if you don't get the interview.
