---
tags:
  - the-hunt
  - interview
  - resume
  - mindset
author: sheep (Kayla)
date: 2024-05-11
---

100Devs Huddle Notes
Skip to content Page list Copy link to this page 5/11/2024 notes by sheep (Kayla) took some notes during the huddle, had to leave about half way through but some notes are better than none a good amount of jobs/interviews/people paid recently!, A lot of people on social media seem to be doom posting when it comes to the job market, I have my very very very first interview, they said it's a quick chat with the hiring manager and a senior dev I am freaking out HELP, have to remove emotion from the hunt, even excitement, and act normal! this can be hard to do for many though, the people interviewing you are your peers, they'll have an easier job if you get hired so don't freak out!, one interview is just one interview, you'll have others, do your banki, talk about your 100 projects, know the stack that they want and know the company, ask about what kind of interview it is, how many rounds of interviews is too much?, depends on the company level and compensation, entry-level should be one, FAANG will have more, 3.Hi Leon, I came across this defeated linkedin post from one of our own. How can we avoid becoming utterly crushed like this? [link removed for privacy] things will weigh on you (it's called the trough of sorrow for a reason) it's not easy! there's a reason Leon shows the journey first thing., this is not an easy path, but if you make it through, it's worth it. compare it to a traditional college degree, 4-5 years of work. be realistic, things will fail and you'll have to keep going. take care of yourself, manage your frustration, and be consistent. it's the journey, not the end goal. you'll drain yourself otherwise., the goal is to be a better developer than you were yesterday., Atomic Habits is a really good book to read, Is May a hot month for job searching for the hunt?, yes, but it's not optimized for non-traditional learners., internship/entry-level jobs pop up for college students and companies have a better grasp on the hiring budget for the year, What is the best way to contribute or get involved with open-source projects? I am confused about how even to get started., get to a point where you understand code basics to be helpful,, look for first-timer-only projects that'll teach you how to contribute, get on projects you care about! look for low-level issues and get involved with the community. don't contribute just to contribute., 100devs will have community projects soon!, Any news regarding Cohort3?, it'll happen when it happens, How do you separate learning for gaining knowledge versus exploration? I often get overwhelmed when reading the coursework (Shay Howe, for example) trying to capture all the important things for my Anki, and this holds me back from progressing in the coursework., always ask yourself what the point of the material is., a lot of engineering is not knowing precisely but knowing where to get information. get the GIST and the fingers on the keyboard practice., What will this do for you? will it help you accomplish what you want? make a list of things you want to check out later., I got to the final interview of a job 6 months ago, rejected. they've been posting the same job every month for the past year but no new hires. Thoughts?, the clown show came to town, don't be surprised they have clowns., it's free to post on most job boards and nobody doing quality control., some companies want to seem like they're hiring. keep moving or hit them back up., How can we volunteer for cohort 3?, fill out the maintainer's form, I'm getting to the 2nd/3rd interview, usually behavioral, & getting declined. I'm autistic & struggle with interviews. I'm doing banki. Anything else I can do?, practice interviews with people who will tell you the truth, be more aware/get BRUTAL feedback and be analytical about it, and come up with solutions., you will find a fit., Hey Leon, I am 6 interviews deep. Half a year into the hunt, got to a few final rounds but all rejections. Have any advice?, same thing. as the previous question., it's 1 out of 60 interviews that you get a win., What are your thoughts of accepting a role in tech support? I currently drive for Uber so it would be a pay increase and I’d get to work at a tech company., yeah. get paid., take any role that will make your life more comfortable for the hunt but don't forget the hunt., Hey Leon should I only fill out the talent base form if I have finished huntober. Also thank you for reminding me the other day to be kind to myself., nah, fill it out wherever you're at., Leon needs info to adjust things., make sure to give view permission for all the links you submit, he hasn't been able to try and match people because he can't see their stuff, bombed the role, reached back out, and got a second chance. is the expectation higher now, no, it's usual that companies extend the chance if the role isn't filled., companies understand people have bad interviews sometimes. don't expect more unless they verbalize it., a lot of companies have a default reapply after 6 months and know that the hiring process is broken.,
All docs
Pages
Huddle Notes by Author and Date
Tuesday 3.3.2026
Friday 28.2.2026
Fri 2/27/26
Tues 2/24/26
Fri 2/20/26
Tuesday 17.2.2026 - DIRTY 30
Tues 2/17/26
Fri 2/13/26
Tues 2/10/26
Fri 2/6/26
Tues 2/3/26
Friday 30.1.2026
Fri 1/30/26
Tuesday 28.1.2026
Tues 1/27/26
Fri 1/23/26
Tues 1/20/26
Fri 1/16/26
Tues 1/6/26
Tues 12/16/26
Fri 12/9/25 Memory Dump
Friday 5.12.2025
Fri 12/5/25
Fri 11/21/26
Fri 11/14/26
Fri 11/7/26
10/21/2025
10/20/2025
10/17/2025
10/16/2025
10/16/25
9/19/2025
9/12/2025
7/18/2024
07/12/2024 How to Network Deep Dive with Jason E. Torres
06/29/2024
06/21/2024
06/18/2024
06/12/2024
06/07/2024
06/05/2024
05/21/2024
5/18/2024
5/14/2024
5/11/2024
notes by sheep (Kayla)
took some notes during the huddle, had to leave about half way through but some notes are better than none
a good amount of jobs/interviews/people paid recently!,
A lot of people on social media seem to be doom posting when it comes to the job market,
I have my very very very first interview, they said it's a quick chat with the hiring manager and a senior dev I am freaking out HELP,
have to remove emotion from the hunt, even excitement, and act normal! this can be hard to do for many though,
the people interviewing you are your peers, they'll have an easier job if you get hired so don't freak out!,
one interview is just one interview, you'll have others,
do your banki, talk about your 100 projects, know the stack that they want and know the company, ask about what kind of interview it is,
how many rounds of interviews is too much?,
depends on the company level and compensation, entry-level should be one, FAANG will have more,
3.Hi Leon, I came across this defeated linkedin post from one of our own. How can we avoid becoming utterly crushed like this? [link removed for privacy]
things will weigh on you (it's called the trough of sorrow for a reason) it's not easy! there's a reason Leon shows the journey first thing.,
this is not an easy path, but if you make it through, it's worth it. compare it to a traditional college degree, 4-5 years of work.
be realistic, things will fail and you'll have to keep going. take care of yourself, manage your frustration, and be consistent.  it's the journey, not the end goal. you'll drain yourself otherwise.,
the goal is to be a better developer than you were yesterday.,
Atomic Habits is a really good book to read,
Is May a hot month for job searching for the hunt?,
yes, but it's not optimized for non-traditional learners.,
internship/entry-level jobs pop up for college students and companies have a better grasp on the hiring budget for the year,
What is the best way to contribute or get involved with open-source projects? I am confused about how even to get started.,
get to a point where you understand code basics to be helpful,,
look for first-timer-only projects that'll teach you how to contribute,
get on projects you care about! look for low-level issues and get involved with the community. don't contribute just to contribute.,
100devs will have community projects soon!,
Any news regarding Cohort3?,
it'll happen when it happens,
How do you separate learning for gaining knowledge versus exploration? I often get overwhelmed when reading the coursework (Shay Howe, for example) trying to capture all the important things for my Anki, and this holds me back from progressing in the coursework.,
always ask yourself what the point of the material is.,
a lot of engineering is not knowing precisely but knowing where to get information. get the GIST and the fingers on the keyboard practice.,
What will this do for you? will it help you accomplish what you want? make a list of things you want to check out later.,
I got to the final interview of a job 6 months ago, rejected. they've been posting the same job every month for the past year but no new hires. Thoughts?,
the clown show came to town, don't be surprised they have clowns.,
it's free to post on most job boards and nobody doing quality control.,
some companies want to seem like they're hiring. keep moving or hit them back up.,
How can we volunteer for cohort 3?,
fill out the maintainer's form,
I'm getting to the 2nd/3rd interview, usually behavioral, & getting declined. I'm autistic & struggle with interviews. I'm doing banki. Anything else I can do?,
practice interviews with people who will tell you the truth, be more aware/get BRUTAL feedback and be analytical about it, and come up with solutions.,
you will find a fit.,
Hey Leon, I am 6 interviews deep. Half a year into the hunt, got to a few final rounds but all rejections. Have any advice?,
same thing. as the previous question.,
it's 1 out of 60 interviews that you get a win.,
What are your thoughts of accepting a role in tech support? I currently drive for Uber so it would be a pay increase and I’d get to work at a tech company.,
yeah. get paid.,
take any role that will make your life more comfortable for the hunt but don't forget the hunt.,
Hey Leon should I only fill out the talent base form if I have finished huntober. Also thank you for reminding me the other day to be kind to myself.,
nah, fill it out wherever you're at.,
Leon needs info to adjust things.,
make sure to give view permission for all the links you submit, he hasn't been able to try and match people because he can't see their stuff,
bombed the role, reached back out, and got a second chance. is the expectation higher now,
no, it's usual that companies extend the chance if the role isn't filled.,
companies understand people have bad interviews sometimes. don't expect more unless they verbalize it.,
a lot of companies have a default reapply after 6 months and know that the hiring process is broken.,
