---
tags:
  - the-hunt
  - resume
  - portfolio
  - networking
author: choir241 (Richard)
date: 2024-06-05
---

The following notes come from HEMAD, thank you again for stepping up.

I'm having coffee chats with people that the company is hiring but by the time I meet with them the company is no longer taking applications. Any tips?

It's still ok to build those relationships and they'll have you in mind next time hiring. If it's significant, the local environment may just move quickly. No shame in applying while setting up coffee chats.

Is The Bank still a good resource to use for developers with one year of experience who are looking to switch jobs?

Probably even better for you, honestly. You may be expected to know a lot of those questions AND you'll have better answers for behavioral questions. 3-5 years revisit questions as you'll have that experience.

Finally getting in touch & replies with engineering managers/leads on LinkedIn . What's a good resource to generate good questions to ask them and build rapport

\-On the Bank, six questions you should be asking during interviews, that's a good place to start.

\-If beginning, build rapport, make friends, and get them to talk about themselves, their lives, and good things about their company.

\-Read how to win friends and influence people

Don't come with a preset list of questions just reading through. Be natural.,

How do I get better at git/github? I am struggling

Quantify what you're struggling with, and ask for help here on Discord. The cmd line can be overwhelming, give yourself time to figure it out. Initially use the same six commands over and over then just google it.

High school graduate is doing 100devs and WGU, studies just a couple of hours, and spends the rest of day wasting time and on the phone, advice pls

Oh boy.

\-is it a problem? Are you able to do the amount of study you want to do? If you're able to do both, that's a lot of time. very few people can study 12 hours a day. Probably not a good thing for most people. Focused, reinforced learning time is more impactful. The rest of the day, do what you want to do!

\-seek help if you can't get the things done that you want to get done.

\-look into setting the phone to grayscale, you’ll not want to use it

CAN I / SHOULD I have a selfie/headshot on my personal website? Are employers allowed to see what I look like in that capacity before hiring me?

People are going to look you up, like on Linked In. What does your local market dictate? do that. Do what you are comfortable with, some don't have the safety to put headshots online.

How do you know when you know enough to be employed at a regular 9-5 swe role? It's hard to know when you know enough. Is it API and backend? Is it frameworks?

If you've done 100devs you've done enough. It comes down to showing you can do it. Your portfolio of work, paid work, etc.

Just finished my portfolio, updating my Linkedin. How do I list 100 devs on my Linkedin & resume? As Work or Education?

It's up to you. This is a training program, some put it as education or as work. Did you get a paid client? If you got paid because of 100devs, Leon considers that work. It should be under work.

best 4 projects to get me hired? im fullstack dev

No such thing as ‘best 4 projects’. Mentions 100hours project that solves a need, that's all you need. Go into interviews with a real problem that you solved, the time you put into it, challenges you overcame.

Do I need to get paid to add to my resume or is it okay if I do free things for my friends (can't get paid outside of my normal work due to visa stuff)

Everyone's situation is different, even if free, should have a contract in place as you open yourself up to liabilities. Demand the BEST reference because work is free. Unsure if that works for a visa, not an employment lawyer.

\-you want to get to a point where someone vouches for you as a swe

I'm driving 90 minutes each time for meetups and want to try to find more opportunities through virtual. Any advice for that that's been updated since cohort 02?

Use meetup.com, twitter, a lot are still virtual. Communities are big, too

It’s hard trying to set up a daily schedule m? Any help?

\-Don't go into your days like an accident. At a minimum, ask what ONE THING are you going to do tomorrow. Stop avoiding it, ask the question. Answer it.

\-once you do the one thing, for a week or two, you can believe you can do two, then three, etc.

\-if you have real issues with your daily schedule, you're not gonna magically study 12 hours a day. Start with one thing and do it.

I want to start a local 100Devs "chapter" - like getting local POC together in my segregated city to go through material. Any advice on how to start/what to do?

It's not something we advocate. Don't need to be local, just go here on Discord and get people together.

Can we get a reference from you?

If you do Huntober, you get a letter from Leon

Reading a 100Devs members (scars) guide to networking. Step 1 is to remove linkedin connections that do not serve you. should i just remove those that never reply?

I don't know any data behind that. I don't know if that harms/helps. Need to see data on it but don't think it matters, should focus on other things LIKE NETWORKING.

How do i know when I know enough to not smell?

If you've completed 100devs, crafted a story, and gone through interviews. Have to understand there are people getting jobs with half the skill and competence but have the vibes and confidence.

\-show them you have value

Some students get jobs in 4-5 months or finish the cohort less than 9 months. What are they doing that I am not?

\-Sacrificing mental/physical health, may have the privilege of more time. This is something that you will do for the rest of life.

\-Normal pathway is HS, then four years grad, then internship. Normal process is FIVE years. So, you're worried about taking 5 months..stop. If it takes you less than five years, you have WON. no debt, built more (freelancing), stop trying to shave off three months

\-comparison is the thief of joy

I know age doesn’t matter but honestly does it really not? How old is too old to be entry level engineer

I have no evidence of older folks doing worse. The folks that are older typically do better, they usually have other experiences that add to it. Yes, you may run into bad people that treat you poorly, but that's rare. Optimize your life for the thousands that bring positivity and fortune your way.

\-stop being mean to yourself, bring positivity to yourself.

Work full time with exhausting toxic surroundings. After work is always tired. Any recommendations on how to put coding agenda into the work day?

Do your learning before work.

how can i stop stressing while coding?,everytime i code or theres an error i shake my leg and sweating and mad and so burnout

Its worth it to talk to a professional if you have a barrier that gets in the way of something you want to do with your life. Coding should be fun, its problem solving. Work with the community, lean on people. Use and connect on the discord!

how do we do huntober?

Just a list of req as you do the program

Is 2hrs a day enough to learn 100Devs?

Some, yes..some no. less time a day only limits the job

A company wants me to take over their site, a few things they want changed. Should I push to make a brand new website or work with what they have?

That's up to you and their budget. Leon is a fan of the new site where they can control it all, but they may not have that budget. Are you comfortable with doing all that?

How would you talk about experience gaps when you've not got a client yet but contributed to open source?

Get a client, the best way to explain gaps. Talk about open-source contributions then.

Met 2 people at my first meetup and used the followup/sheet, but noticed that neither of them are active on Twitter anymore. Is that still a valuable resource?

Yes, just maybe not for those two people

How do you respond to a website client that’s dodging the “what’s your budget” question, and throws out fiver and friend discount buzzwords?

I say no to way more clients than yes, use compassion, and point toward Fiver

At what class number do you feel its best to start freelancing during the cohort?

Class 15 or so

If you can work anywhere in the US, what city would you recommend we network in to maximize opportunity? SFO? I'm in Canada (dual citizen) but pay here is low.

It's all different. Anything that has a large tech economy that's not the valley.

My only real job has been as a housekeeper and I have been taking classes at community college. How do I craft a story based on this with zero tech experience?

You ran a small company that did housekeeping, and kept hitting tech problems so decided to expand your engineering skillset, talk about a project related to that

Freelancing has been rough, the local location everything handles things via WhatsApp and nobody seems interested, is it possible to freelance remote?

Yes, it is possible but 100% harder.

why is freelancing remote 100% harder in your opinion

Hard to build trust. Local is a real person, can meet in person.

Suggestion on using work time to study?

Depending on your job, don't do it without approval.
