---
tags:
  - the-hunt
  - networking
  - technical
author: choir241 (Richard)
date: 2024-06-12
---

notes by sheep (Kayla)

Extra Info: Leon is speaking at Render ATL this Friday at 9am. If you're attending, check out the thread here ?unknown !

Next week will have Huddles like normal but also smaller community sessions where the focus will be getting things nailed down for 100devs. There will be a teaspill lead by Mayanwolfe on the 21st.

\[02:03\]sheep:

At 54 years old and switching careers, do I realistically have a good chance of getting a coding job due to my age and lack of experience?

• yes, of course. will be harder, and age bias will be a thing. but you'll find a bunch of companies don't care.

• use your age to your advantage! So many skills can be transferred to tech. so many people have led the way already and 400+ people want to see you win!

• craft your story/narrative! show your value. don't let your age be an excuse, you're awesome, tell the world. use your hitlist and network!

\[02:05\]sheep:

2.After what happened to Twitter/X since cohort 2 , would you still recommend it as strongly for networking? Or do you have an alternate preferred platform?

• hustle everywhere you can! some people don't have the privilege to change platforms and Twitter/X can still be a strong place for networking. you can't be too picky when it comes to what will help you put food on the table

• if you don't want to use it, don't. LinkedIn, Instagram, etc are all options, just find out where folx in your local area are connecting.

\[02:07\]sheep:

I am worried that 10 years down the line all of this will be for nothing because of AI. And I have existential worry's about my future as well, Thoughts?

• there's a nonzero chance but SWE is a great job right now. If you listen to the doomers, you'll never know what's possible if you don't try.

• tech has big cycles/phases like any industry and many people saying that AI will take over aren't even SWEs. AI is pretty bad right now, you still have to go through verification on the code it does. And the worst case scenario, why not get paid well now and then deal with the "in 10 years" scenario in 10 years?

• not learning because the potential AI takeover is a really good excuse and a lot of people use it

\[02:08\]sheep:

How do you keep a coffee chat connection alive after the first chat without making it transactional?

• by remembering something about them that you can bring up later. people love to talk about themselves and have people bring up the things they like. don't be afraid to take notes in a Google Doc or set up Google alerts.

• don't be afraid to talk to people, sometimes talking with someone is transactional. and if you go too far, you can always apologize. don't overthink it.

\[02:08\]sheep:

5.Hey Leon! Can we still join the #100Devs linkedIn group if we don't have a job/are a student? (If that's not okay and we don't have a job, what should we do?)

• yeah, the only requirement is a photo and a title! And Leon plans to do more stuff on LinkedIn in the future.

\[02:08\]sheep:

6.How do folks manage in the catchup crew? I get that taking care of myself is important, but it feels like every minute could be better used by studying.

• work hard or recharge hard. The death of learning is when people exist in the in-between. kinda taking care of yourself and kinda learning doesn't work. focus or relax. Have a schedule, don't go into your day like an accident.

• people can rarely properly study for 12 hrs, most people do 2 hours a day. you're probably going to burn out quickly if you try to do more at first. after a while, try using body doubling, a silent study channel, or things like focusmate to increase your time. remember the focus and diffused mode.

\[02:09\]sheep:

7.If watching the classes aren’t enough to grasp a concept, is it ok to watchYouTube videos about it or read more documentations? For example javascript.info

• absolutely! use all your resources. sometimes when we introduce something in class, it's just the first pass. Watch the next class and see if you still don't understand and then check out more resources.

• sometimes, things are cognitively difficult (ie having to put in the actual work) vs you not understanding.

• CHECK OUT MAYANWOLFE! She has great YouTube videos going over much of the material

\[02:09\]sheep:

8.Will your talk at Render be streamed online for those that aren't attending and want to watch?

• some talks have been recorded before leon doesn't know if his talk will. leon will put up the slides and maybe record himself. it's not a learning talk, but more about about being a part of your community and giving back to your community.

\[02:09\]sheep:

9.I got hired, how do I make the most out of my first year on the job to learn and grow the most?

• make sure you talk to your manager about clear expecations about 3/6/9/12 month goals, have them written down, and leave a paper trail. keep regular communication about them and make a paper trail about any changes. so many people don't do this and worry about where they stand when it comes to performance reviews. This way you should know where you stand pretty easily.

• never eat alone. get to know your coworkers, team, managers then other teams, everyone should know who you are. hype people up and celebrate their wins! Check out the books: Never Eat Alone and How To Win Friends And Influence People.

• set the tone in the first 3 months for the next two years. be present, lean into asking questions, and document answers.

• document everything. wins, anything you've done, document it all. onboarding, setting up your dev environment, etc, and sharing this with new people or anyone else who asks.

\[02:09\]sheep:

10.Anything different you recommend we do during hunt compared to what you suggested during the 2nd cohort? AKA any new tactics?

• a lot of the advice is slow to change because it's more fundemental. the only things that change are how you do it, you might use more AI to help develop messages or your hitlist now.

\[02:09\]sheep:

11.Where do I find the video on coffee chats and networking?

• search through the yt channel for the networking vids

• planning on having more teaspills soon. The following Friday(the 21st) will be a teaspill Mayanwolfe leading. keep push notifications on!

\[02:10\]sheep:

12.You said if you can’t show your code from prev roles, talk about the project in a technical way. I worked on a big project how deep show I go? (8 sec rule?)

• as much as they'll let you. just ask them how deep they want you to go!
