---
tags:
  - the-hunt
  - resume
  - interview
  - technical
author: choir241 (Richard)
date: 2025-10-16
---

from choir241 (Richard)

How to build the best resume ● Communicates your experiences and advocates for you ● Some things Leon shares will make you feel uncomfortable, and you don’t have to it if you don’t wanna ● There are different resumes for people who can finesse, and people who can’t ○ People who can’t communicate and articulate certain points that aren’t necessarily a lie, but for things that aren’t explicitly stated ● People in the hiring process ○ Hiring manager that determines whether you get the job or not. They have the final say, they have the head count, and budget for who they can hire. ○ Recruiter (bigger companies a sourcer) - essentially the filter or mid person before the hiree’s information even meets the hiring manager. ○ Sourcer is the person DM’ng people usually, their job is usually to find talent to hire for what they’re looking for ■ Recruiter and sourcer will only spend so much time looking at your resume. Recruiter and sourcer will be the most visible, but the hiring manager has the final say. What does the process look like: ● 250 Resumes Submitted -> ○ 250 applicant tracking system Queue (ATS) -> ■ your application arrives in the ATS. It will progress through stages, until either a rejection or offer. ■ For ATS system, you will never have your resume rejected by AI. It’s legally not possible due to knockout questions, where if you answer a certain way, you will automatically be rejected, and due to the nature of the US laws regarding these questions, a human must view these applications and not AI. Examples of knockout questions are do you require visa or do you have a CS degree (depends on the company) ○ 200 resume screen -> ■ recruiters spend 5-20 seconds to determine whether to invest time in reading more. ■ You have to prove that you are worth spending time going further in the process and that you are the person they’re looking for this role and you’ll be able to perform at this role ○ 30 recruiter screen -> ■ - a phone call with the recruiter, confirming experience, motivation, touching on soft skills ○ 20 technical screen - > ■ a technical phone screen and/or a takehome challenge, focused on coding ○ 5 onsite -> ■ several onsite interviews like coding, hiring manager and systems design ○ 1 offer -> ■ if you get here, congrats! It’s been quite the journey. ● Hiring manager is looking for people to stay at the company long term, recruiter is looking for people that are qualified and safe (think about how the recruiter is qualified on how they do their job) ● Everything they see (see screenshot below) can influence the bias of what employers determine to pass/fail for hiring due to how many applicants they receive ● Current role should be a software engineer ● Location should be at a location where they’re hiring ● If your name could potentially cause bias, consider using acronyms ● In those 6 seconds, they’re looking for if you’re technical, if you have impact, and if you have leadership (think about the way you word things and how that positions you as an hiree) ● You can be hyper explicit, or you can let them dream a bit during a resume. For example, if you had to take a gap year for family reasons, you can place that on the resume explicitly to explain the gap year. Some recruiters will see that, understand the gap, and moves forward. Some recruiters just don’t care and just want to get their work done. For resumes that don’t explicitly share things, some recruiters will see the gap in a positive light, and others will see it in a negative light. ● Thinking about the difference between helped and supported vs led and launched ● Resume should follow the XYZ: accomplished X as measured by Y by doing Z ○ X: What you did/what was the impact you had ○ Y: How did you measure that impact ○ Z: How did you make that come true ● Examples: ○ Ok: Won second place in hackathon ○ Better: Won second place out of 50 teams in hackathon ○ Best: Won second place out of 50 teams in hackathon at NJ Tech by working with two colleagues to develop an app that synchronizes mobile calendars. (or leading a team of three) ● More examples of XYZ bullet points ● 2 bullet points are okay IF and ONLY if they are high impact ● 2 column resumes work really well for career changers, people new to software engineers and it really worked well for a long time ● Career summaries are typically only for career changers or seniors ● Recently career changers are not seen valued as highly if you’re not ready to get started to work right away ● Bigger companies (potentially mid sizes) two columns may not be the best option ● What does a Projects section make you think of? - potentially a student or a newer dev. Not that we should remove the section right away, but just a retrospective of what we should consider to keep and/or remove for us personally ● The X, Y, Z format is super important for experiences that are not technical ● The bottom should be saved for activities/volunteering they you may have done that you want to highlight, but should never smell “bootcampy” ● Hiringcafe website to find local companies and the technologies they’re looking for ● Make sure your job title experience matches the keyword for the job you’re applying for ie. if you’re applying for a software engineer job, your job title should say software engineer
